 Deleted in liver cancer 1 (DLC1) is a tumor suppressor gene that was first discovered because it was deleted in hepatocarcinomas, and was later found to be downregulated, via genetic, epigenetic, and post-translational mechanisms, in many other tumor types, including colon/rectum, breast, prostate, and lung. The downregulation of DLC1 in tumors has been mostly attributed either to gene deletion or promoter DNA methylation, although other changes may also contribute to its decreased expression. Very recently, a fine detailed analysis of several tumor types in the TCGA dataset revealed that tumor-associated point mutations in DLC1 also occur frequently and can impair the biological functions of its encoded protein by several mechanisms.
 Houttuynia cordata is the herbal medicine included in the Chinese pharmacopeia and is derived from the dry aerial part of the saururus chinensis plant family. At present, H. cordata has shown anti-tumor progression effects in cancer. For example, H. cordata enhances HIF-1A/FOXO3 signaling transduction, causing the up-regulation of MEF2A expression in HepG2 cells, inhibiting the expression of Bcl-2 family proteins (Bax, Bcl-2 and Bcl-Xl), promoting cell apoptosis, and inhibiting the growth of liver cancer cells transplanted into nude mice. H. cordata and 2-undecanone can significantly inhibit benzo(a)pyrene from inducing lung tumors without causing significant systemic toxicity in mice. In addition, H. cordata component quercetin features important biological values in the progression of lung cancer. For example, quercetin reduces the viability of lung cancer cells, inhibits the expression of HSP70, and increases gemcitabine-induced cancer cell death. The combination therapy of quercetin and gemcitabine significantly down-regulates the expression of HSP70. It has been reported that quercetin inhibits the proliferation, migration and invasion of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells in vitro, and inhibits the growth of solid tumors in vivo. The Src expression and Fn/NF-kappaB (NF-kB) signaling pathway are inhibited by the quercetin. Src overexpression in NSCLC cells leads to NSCLC cell proliferation and metastasis, and activating the Fn/NF-kB signaling pathway inhibits the anti-NSCLC effect of quercetin. Therefore, the quercetin has the anti-tumor roles in lung cancer.
 Treacle is Overexpressed in Multiple Cancer TypesTo understand if Treacle expression is altered across different cancers, we analyzed RNA-Seq data from TCGA using the TNM plot software. We used Treacle expression data from paired normal and adjacent tumor samples from 470 patients. For our analysis, we included cancer types with available data from a minimum of five patients. Interestingly, we found significantly higher Treacle expression levels in 11 out of 14 cancers (p < 0. 05 following False Discovery Rate (FDR) adjustment by Bonferroni correction of the obtained p-values from TNM plot). Rectum adenocarcinoma tumor samples also have higher expression levels compared to normal, however, the difference was not significant. In prostate adenocarcinoma and uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma expression levels were comparable in paired normal and tumor samples. In summary, these results suggest that Treacle expression becomes upregulated in most cancers. From the prevalent upregulation of Treacle across several cancer types, we wanted to analyze whether there is a correlation between high Treacle expression levels and patient survival. We analyzed pan-cancer RNA-Seq data by use of a Kaplan-Meier Plotter analyzing clinically available data from 7489 patients with 18 different tumor types obtained from TCGA. The patients were separated into low and high Treacle expression cohorts with a cut-off defined by the median. The extracted p-values from the Kaplan-Meier plotter were further FDR adjusted by Bonferroni correction. We found a significant correlation (p < 0. 05) between increased Treacle expression levels and poor survival in liver and renal cancer. Amongst the cancer types where the correlation was not statistically significant both elevated and reduced hazard ratios were found (data not shown). The correlation between high Treacle expression levels and poor survival in liver and renal cancer was also found in the Human Protein Atlas online resource. Their analysis was also based on RNA-Seq data of Treacle expression from the TCGA database. Several recent studies focusing on the prognostic and potential therapeutic value of Treacle in cancer reach conclusions in agreement with our data. Wu et al. proposed a role for Treacle in oncogenic activation and promotion of tumorigenesis in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). They found a positive correlation between Treacle expression levels and advanced pathological stages and histological grade in HCC, suggesting a role for Treacle in cancer progression. In addition, they found that high Treacle expression resulted in a significant decrease in overall survival probability in HCC patients. This data is in agreement with the RNA-seq data analyzed here, showing a significant upregulation of Treacle expression in liver cancer as well as a significant correlation between high Treacle expression and poor survival. Another recent study by Hu et al. showed that Treacle mRNA is upregulated in 32% of triple negative breast cancers (TNBC). The upregulation of Treacle was validated at the protein level in breast cancer cell lines and by immunohistochemistry in a cohort of breast cancer patients. Furthermore, the authors investigated the association between Treacle status and patient outcome and demonstrated that high levels of Treacle expression correlated with poor survival both in TNBC and across all breast cancers. In the case of TNBC patients, correlation between Treacle expression, tumor grade, and TNM stage was observed, pointing to a role of Treacle in advanced stages of cancer in TNBC patients. An additional pan-cancer study by Gu et al. analyzed expression levels from un-paired normal and tumor samples and prognostic value of Treacle. In this study, the authors found Treacle expression levels to be significantly upregulated in a broad range of cancers. This study also correlated Treacle expression levels with patient outcome and found an overall correlation between high Treacle expression levels and poor survival in five cancer types. However, variation in the results were observed depending on whether the authors used the GEO or TCGA dataset, making it difficult to interpret the results. In summary, our results and the conclusions from recent studies show an upregulation of Treacle in cancer and indicate that it has potential as a prognostic marker in a subset of cancers.
 A critical application of such data fusion algorithms is cancer subtype detection using omics data. Multiple oncogenes are involved in a heterogeneous disease like cancer, and they are perturbed through several pathways. Cancer patients' severity and their survival also differ considerably depending upon this perturbation. For example, Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) has four established subtypes: Classical, Mesenchymal, Neural, and Proneural. Subtype detection is a complex problem and frequently requires the fusion of various heterogeneous datasets. Recently autoencoders are also used for subtype detection problems for Liver cancer by fusing three heterogeneous data types. For example, Chaudhary et al. used autoencoders on methylation, RNA-seq, and miRNA-Seq data from liver cancer patients to develop a robust model to predict two distinct survival groups. Also, Tan et al. used the denoising autoencoder to develop a model that can identify and extract an intricate pattern from omics data in breast cancer. Deep learning autoencoders were also used for subtype classification in colorectal cancer using multi-omics data, while applied autoencoders to identify two subtypes in neuroblastoma.
 A functionally similar protein to XIAP is survivin, encoded by the BIRC5 gene. Normally, survivin is expressed during embryonic development. It is presence has been demonstrated in fetal organs, including in the kidneys, brain, liver, lungs, and digestive tract. In a mature organism, this protein is present in small amounts in tissues with a high proliferation potential, undergoing constant renewal (placenta, endometrium, CD34 + stem cells). Survivin expression is not found in normal, differentiated tissues of adults. This protein is expressed in cancer cells. Survivin has been found in cells of almost all types of cancer, including breast cancer, prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, liver cancer, lymphoma, glioblastoma cancer. Overexpression of BIRC4 and BIRC5 genes has been described in many cancers, and high expression of survivin and XIAP was associated with poor prognosis. Survivin is expressed in large quantity in cancer tissue including breast cancer. High levels of survivin in patients with breast cancer are associated with poor prognosis and resistance to chemotherapy.
 A growing body of data demonstrates that NADPH:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), a phase II two-electron reductase that can bioactivate certain quinone molecules and shows a protective effect against natural and exogenous quinones, is abnormally upregulated in many solid cancers, such as lung, pancreatic, breast, prostate, and colon cancers. In liver cancer, it has been reported that NQO1 was increased 18-fold in HCC versus normal livers. Recently, NQO1 overexpression was reported to be a potent independent biomarker for prognostic evaluation of HCC and enhanced apoptosis inhibition of liver cancer cells via the SIRT6/AKT/XIAP signaling pathway. NQO1 overexpression in tumors has the advantage of preferentially killing cancer cells and sparing normal cells when anticancer drugs that are bioreductively activated by NQO1, such as β-Lapachone (β-lap), are used.
 A previous study reported HDGF protein expression to correlate with melanoma progression in tissue biopsies, raising the question about HDGF's role in melanoma initiation or progression. A prior perturbation study using tissue-specific expression of HDGF in an inka ± mouse model exposed to UV did not result in nevi or melanoma formation, while a study using HDGF perturbation in melanoma cell lines in vitro and in the B16-F10 mouse transplant model suggested a cancer cell autonomous role in melanoma migration. Our work, in line with prior literature, solidifies HDGF's role as a melanoma progression gene, and as a regulator of angiogenesis in melanoma. We show for the first time that recurrent co-alteration of HDGF and SETDB1 drives cutaneous melanoma progression and poor patient outcome. We speculate that recurrent amplification of chromosome 1q frequently observed in malignant melanoma may confer an evolutionary advantage in part though HDGF/SETDB1 amplification that results in its selection during disease progression. Given that this CNV event is observed in >20% of all patients in TCGA PanCancer analysis, and prior literature has established HDGF and SETDB1's individual roles in other solid tumors (e. g., colorectal and liver cancer), it is plausible that our findings are relevant to additional tumor types beyond melanoma.
 Aberrant activation of lipid metabolism is an important hallmark for cancer cells, resulting in alterations of the lipid composition profile in different tumor tissues including lung, breast, and liver cancers. The lipid synthesis provides essential substrate for energy metabolism and ingredients for cell membrane construction during the proliferation process, suggesting an indispensable role of lipid metabolism pathways in the genesis and development of cancer. A subsequent study verified an upregulated expression of the key enzymes for lipid synthesis in colon cancer cells, followed by attempts of utilizing lipid synthesis inhibitors in colon cancer treatment, which suggested the vital role of lipid metabolism in colon cancer development. Among the various metabolites, triacylglycerol has been identified as a prognostic biomarker for colon cancer, indicating a possible contribution of glycerolipid metabolism in colon cancer progression. Therefore, genes related to glycerolipid metabolism may serve as potential prognostic markers of colon cancer, and a better understanding of cancer-related genes involved in glycerolipid metabolism may provide a reference for the selection of treatment strategies in colon cancer patients. However, relevant studies regarding glycerolipid metabolism and colon cancer development are still limited.
 Aberrant switching between oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and glycolysis plays a crucial regulatory role in tumorigenesis. Initially, glycolysis was considered as a manner of energy supply forced adopted in the hypoxic microenvironment caused by uncontrolled growth. Interestingly, cancer cells prefer to utilize aerobic glycolysis to obtain adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to satisfy the needs for uncontrolled proliferation even in conditions with sufficient oxygen. This unique metabolic signature termed Warburg effect has been demonstrated to exist in various solid tumors, including PCa. Recently, an increasing number of studies have reported that abnormal expression of glycolysis-related molecules have crucial roles in regulating chemotherapy resistance, immune response, neuroendocrine differentiation, and growth and metastasis of PCa, ultimately affecting its prognosis. Additionally, some researchers have successfully constructed prediction models derived from glycolysis-associated genes in liver cancer and colon cancer. However, the actual relationship between glycolysis and PCa remains unclear and is worth further exploration. Herein, we hypothesized that a risk score prediction model based on glycolysis-related genes might have a strong ability to accurately judge the prognosis of PCa with BCR. We successfully identified and constructed a satisfactory signature composed of five glycolytic genes and verified it in the validation set. Furthermore, the molecular roles of the signature components in regulating malignant tumor behaviors were validated in vitro.
 Abnormal gene expression is a common phenomenon in malignant tumors, which may promote the progression of tumors. Recently, omics technology and bioinformatics analysis have created an opportunity to identify novel molecular biomarkers and understand potential mechanisms in many tumors. For example, Zhao et al. identified a six-gene risk signature for the outcome prediction of GBM. Several studies have reported immune-related gene pairs (IRGPs) signature in ovarian cancer, liver cancer, and colorectal cancer and showed well-predictive accuracy. However, up to now, there is no study reporting an IRGP signature in GBM.
 According to epidemiologic data, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for more than 80% of primary liver cancers and is the fourth most common because of cancer-related death worldwide. To our knowledge, the treatment options are limited for patients with advanced HCC. Thus, it is important to understand the mechanism of the progression of HCC and predict the survival rate and novel small-molecule drugs for patients with HCC.
 According to Global Cancer Statistics 2020, hepatocellular liver cancer has the seventh-highest incidence rate but the second-highest mortality rate after lung cancer. As a common malignancy, with potentially fatal consequences, hepatocellular carcinomas have been widely studied. Although much research has focused on understanding hepatocellular cancer at the molecular level and therapeutic strategies have been developed, the biological mechanisms of hepatocarcinogenesis remain unclear. Due to slow progress in liver cancer research, the patient survival rate remains low (i. e. < 8 months). Liver cancer is a more complex disease than other cancers, as its progression includes genetic modification processes, including gene mutations, gene deletions, translocations and DNA methylation. Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment are essential for improving the prognosis of liver cancer. To date, the only effective diagnostic method is detection of the serum tumour marker alpha-fetoprotein, which has an upper limit of normal value of 20 ng/mL. However, alpha-fetoprotein is nonspecific and has little statistical significance when detected in patients with different types of liver cancer. It is also ineffective for the diagnosis of early-stage liver cancer.
 According to report fromf the World Health Organization in 2020, primary liver cancer is the 6th most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide, and it is the 4th leading because of cancer-related death. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common pathological type of primary liver cancer. Its early diagnosis is difficult, its development is rapid, and drug efficacy is limited. Therefore, HCC has a high mortality rate and a relatively poor prognosis. It is therefore, of great significance to explore the molecular mechanism underlying HCC and the development of its malignant biological behavior, so as to identify effective targets for HCC treatment and related molecular markers that mediate its poor prognosis.
 According to the 2018 Global Cancer Statistics, liver cancer is the sixth most common human malignancy worldwide (841, 080 cases/year) and the fourth leading because of cancer-related deaths (781, 631 cases/year). Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) originates from hepatocytes and accounts for the vast majority (approximately 75-85%) of primary liver cancers. Despite recent advances in early detection and management, mortality from HCC still remains high due to the low rate of early diagnosis. Therefore, it is necessary to urgently identify effective prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets to complement and improve current screening strategies for HCC diagnosis and prognosis.
 According to the 2018 global cancer statistics, there are 841, 080 new liver cancer cases and more than 780 thousand deaths per year worldwide, and China accounts for nearly half of the total number of cases and deaths. Approximately 70-90% of all primary liver cancers are hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
 According to the 2020 global cancer statistics, primary liver cancer ranks the sixth and the third in the worldwide incidence rate and mortality rate, respectively, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for the overwhelming majority of liver cancer cases. Even though early diagnosis of HCC has developed rather rapidly in recent years, in most patients HCC is already in the intermediate or advanced stage at the time of diagnosis, having missed the best time for surgical resection. New treatments, such as transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE), radiofrequency ablation, immunotherapy, and targeted therapy, can bring hope to patients with advanced liver cancer. However, the overall survival (OS) of patients with HCC remains unsatisfactory, and changes in the immune microenvironment possibly play a pivotal role in immune escape and resistance in HCC. In recent years, immunotherapy—represented by immune checkpoint inhibitors, adoptive cell therapy (ACT), and tumor vaccines—has brought new hope to patients with advanced HCC. However, only a small fraction of patients can benefit from immunotherapy, which may be due to tumor heterogeneity and changes in immune-related factors in the tumor microenvironment (TME). Therefore, finding an indicator that can predict the effect of immunotherapy and the state of the microenvironment is crucial for improving the prognosis in patients with HCC.
 According to the Global Cancer Observatory (GLOBOCAN) data from 2020, primary liver cancer is currently the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer (4. 7%) and the third because of cancer death (8. 3%) worldwide. Notably, the incidence rate (6. 3%) and the mortality rate (10. 5%) of primary liver cancer are higher in males. Liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) is the most common subtype (75-85%) of primary liver cancer. The risk factors for LIHC include hepatitis virus (HBV and HCV) infection, aflatoxin, excessive drinking, and obesity. However, the molecular mechanism involvement in LIHC progression is still unclear.
 According to the latest global cancer burden data, primary liver cancer is the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer and the third leading because of cancer death worldwide, with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounting for 75-85% of cases, and most HCC cases detected at an advanced stage. Although there are more treatment options for HCC than ever before, even with multidisciplinary treatment strategies, patients with HCC continue to have a poor prognosis, with a 5-year survival rate of approximately 18%. Although targeted therapies and immunotherapies have recently opened up more options for patients with advanced HCC, the high degree of tumor heterogeneity in HCC limits the overall effectiveness of treatments and the accuracy of predictive prognostic methods. Therefore, it is particularly important to develop an evaluation model that can improve the efficiency of prognostic prediction for patients with HCC and guide the precise treatment of patients with different disease subtypes.
 Although mA is the most prevalent internal modification that occurs in mRNA, its roles in biological processes have just begun to be uncovered. Previous studies implicated a role for mA mRNA methylation during carcinogenesis, stem cell fate, spermatogenesis, circadian rhythms, and other diseases. Therefore, questions are raised about reversible RNA methylation/demethylation in various malignant tumors. For mA methylases, METTL3 has been reported to promote the growth and tumorigenesis of human liver cancer cells, acute myeloid leukaemia cells and glioblastoma stem cells but also act as a tumor suppressor in renal cell carcinoma. METTL14 expression could also increase the tumorigenesis of glioblastoma stem cells but suppress the metastatic potential of hepatocellular carcinoma. Similarly, WTAP acts as a novel oncogenic protein in acute myeloid leukemia, and its expression predicts poor prognosis in malignant glioma. For mA demethylases, previous studies have suggested that FTO has an oncogenic role in acute myeloid leukemia. Overexpression of ALKBH5 could increase the frequency of the breast cancer (BECAUSE) stem-cell phenotype by mA-mediated demethylation of NANOG gene.
 Although many anti-cancer drugs developed by target-based approaches have been approved by the FDA, there are still few effective therapeutic targets for HCC. Bidkhori et al. recently addressed this by utilizing metabolic network topology analysis to divide 179 liver HCC (LIHC) samples from the TCGA-LIHC database into three subtypes and identify potential subtype-specific therapeutic targets. However, metabolic networks are dramatically affected by complex transcriptional regulatory networks, while the changes in transcriptional regulation can lead to changes in enzyme abundance or activity, which in turn lead to changes in physiological states (e. g., cancer cell growth). The close crosstalk between metabolic and regulatory mechanisms during the complex tumor development necessitates the investigation of multi-level mechanisms by integrating both regulation and metabolism. Since the regulatory role of miRNA in liver cancer remains largely in the work-in-progress phase, it is hard to get the full spectrum of dysregulated miRNA in HCC, we focused on the genome-scale transcriptional regulatory network between TFs and genes, which was then mechanistically combined with genome-scale liver metabolic model. Several studies are constructing global transcriptional regulatory networks for liver tissue or HCC tissue, but to our knowledge, no computational studies have integrated regulation and metabolism into a unified genome-scale model in studying HCC.
 Among primary liver cancer, HCC represents the major histological subtype. According to the global cancer statistics, HCC is one of the most common types of malignancies worldwide and the fourth leading because of cancer deaths, causing approximately 66, 2000 deaths each year worldwide. The incidence rates of HCC vary globally, but more than 80% of cases occur in low- and middle-resource countries, particularly in East Asia and Africa. As one of the countries with the highest incidences of HCC in the world, China accounts for about 50% of newly diagnosed cases and deaths. Over the last few decades, intensive investigations and efforts have focused on the role of protein-coding genes in the pathogenesis of HCC to seek appropriate diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets for HCC. However, on a global scale, effective molecular markers for diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of advanced HCC are still insufficient. Therefore, there is an urgent need to search for novel targeted therapies in HCC.
 Among the leading causes of death, cancer remains the major disease in humans. Air pollution and chronic hepatitis-mediated chronic inflammation have resulted in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a common subtype of liver cancer, becoming the most prevalent cancer classifications in the world, ranking first and sixth, respectively. The reasons that cancer cells are so deadly include a lack of appropriate diagnostic markers, recurrence/relapse events, drug resistance, and treatment difficulty after cancer cells have metastasized. Various regimens have been formulated to combat cancer, such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy. However, the heterogeneity of individual patients leads to limited efficacy of many cancer drugs. Therefore, personalized precision medicine needs continuous improvement.
 An important corollary to our hypothesis was to directly test a key, central assumption of the Luksza et al. model, namely that viral similarity drives differential immune recognition of neoepitopes. We hypothesized that in the setting of virally infected tumors, with the simultaneous presence of viral epitopes and neoepitopes, we could directly determine if the predicted MHC-I binding affinity (putative immunogenicity) of viral peptides was higher, lower, or indistinguishable from that of tumor neoepitopes from the same patients. Developing and deploying new in-silico methods, we carried this test out using the hepatitis B virally positive portion (HBV+) of the liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) TCGA liver cancer cohort.
 Angiogenesis is the process of new blood vessel formation from pre-existing vessels, which is regarded as a hallmark of malignant tumors, and it plays a central role in cancer occurrence, development and metastatic dissemination. Targeting angiogenesis in LUAD is considered an effective treatment strategy, and exploring efficient molecular diagnostic and prognostic markers based on the regulatory mechanisms of angiogenesis regulators may help further improve the clinical outcomes and individualized treatment strategies for patients with LUAD. In a previous study, tumor angiogenesis was proven to have a positive correlation with many solid tumors, such as lung cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, and breast cancer. Important predictive diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of angiogenesis-related genes have been identified in some malignancies, including liver cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer and urothelial cancer. Thus, the correlation of the angiogenesis gene signature and clinical outcomes or clinical relevance needs to be elucidated in LUAD patients.
 Anxiously, doctors found that TACE was ineffective for a part of patients, and its efficacy declined as the number of procedures increased in the clinical practice. This phenomenon was first defined as TACE refractoriness/TACE failure by the Japan Society of Hepatology in. Nevertheless, there is not a consentaneous definition of TACE refractoriness/TACE failure in the medical world so far. Furthermore, some studies suggest that TACE refractoriness could cause a poor prognosis for patients suffering from HCC. Therefore, seeking the risk factors related to TACE refractoriness is critical in liver cancer research. Li et al. considered that the number of tumors and bilobular invasion status were the independent risk factors for TACE refractoriness. Niu et al. developed a computed tomography-based radiomics nomogram for the pretreatment prediction of TACE refractoriness. Previous studies have noted that some microRNAs, such as microRNA-a, and 29a-3p, can estimate the probability of TACE refractoriness in HCC patients. But diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of TACE refractoriness have not been intensively studied at present.
 As one of the most frequent causes of cancer deaths across the globe, liver cancer, characterized by high mortality, recurrence, metastasis and poor prognosis, is the only one of the top five deadliest cancers to have an annual percentage increase in occurrence.
 As the major subtype of liver cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is diagnosed in more than half a million people worldwide each year. Characterized by high metastasis and poor prognosis, HCC is one of the most common causes of cancer death. Curative treatments, including liver transplantation, liver resection, and ablation are preferred for HCC; however, most patients are not suitable for curative treatment, since they are usually diagnosed at advanced stages. In addition, although systemic therapy with sorafenib is the first-line chemotherapeutic treatment for patients with advanced HCC, most patients are highly refractory to this therapy. Therefore, there is an urgent need to investigate novel treatments to improve the prognosis of most patients with HCC.
 As the most common primary liver cancer and the second leading because of cancer-related deaths worldwide, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients are usually diagnosed with advanced disease, resulting in only 15% of HCC patients being eligible for surgical resection or liver transplantation and the median survival time for HCC patients in intermediate to advanced stages being only years. Moreover, chemotherapy against HCC has limited benefits because of the high resistance to currently available chemotherapeutic agents. Sorafenib, the first-line drug used for patients with advanced HCC, has been used for over 10 years, but the overall outcomes are unsatisfactory. These have led to more extensive research focusing on personalized medicine with increased selectivity and efficacy.
 As the primary type of liver cancer, HCC has an increasing incidence and high mortality rate worldwide. The occurrence and progression of HCC involve the disruption of multiple organelle functions within cells, including the undesirable stimulation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondria. Various genes may play roles in the pathogenesis of human diseases, including cancers, by affecting the normal physiological functions of specific organelles and maintaining cellular homeostasis. By utilizing different machine learning approaches, a series of survival prediction models targeting specific biological events were developed. For instance, Lasso (least absolute shrinkage and selection operator) regression was applied to build several prognostic models for HCC patients targeting ferroptosis, reactive oxygen species, amino acid metabolism, or the tumour microenvironment. In this study, we first constructed an HCC prognostic model from the perspective of ER using an integrated modelling strategy (differentially expressed genes, univariate/multivariate Cox regression, Lasso regression, and nomogram prediction). ER-associated gene expression datasets and the detailed clinicopathological parameters of HCC patients from two publicly accessible sources, namely, TCGA-LIHC training cohort and the GSE14520 validation cohort, were fully considered during our investigation.
 As the sixth most common cancer worldwide, liver cancer has become the fourth most prevalent because of tumor-associated deaths globally. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is considered the most common pathological type of primary malignant liver cancer and has become a significant global health concern. At the time of diagnosis, the vast majority of HCC patients are in the middle-to-late stages of the disease. Although surgery and multi-mode treatment have been improved, the overall 5-year survival rate of HCC patients remains low, approximately 10-20%, due to its invasiveness, metastatic potential, and recurrence rate. Therefore, identifying effective biomarkers for HCC prognosis is important for the evaluation and treatment of HCC. Common prognostic indicators of HCC include clinicopathological features, such as alpha-fetoprotein and microvessel infiltration. However, the specificity and sensitivity of existing prognostic markers do not provide meaningful prognosis patterns.
 As TP53 mutations play a significant role in many types of cancers including HCC, previous studies have been limited to the investigation of this particular gene. However, it is established that cancer is a heterogeneous multi-stage disease caused by the interaction of numerous gene products and signalling factors. Therefore, an integrative functional genomics approach should help in deciphering the molecular features of liver cancer. In previous studies, either the sample size was insufficient, which undermined the reliability of conclusions, or the records on baseline clinical features and therapeutic regimens and even the information included in the dataset were incomplete. Therefore, comprehensive testing and analysis are required to identify more reliable diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in HCC.
 As we know, HCC cells are characterized by fast growth and strong invasiveness. Therefore, proliferation-related gene signatures are potential prognostic biomarkers for HCC. Previous researches suggest that DEPDC1 can promote the occurrence and proliferation of HCC. High expression of E2F1 can promote cancer cell proliferation by activating PKC-α phosphorylation in HCC. YTHDF2 can inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells by destroying the stability of EGFR mRNA in HCC. In addition, in terms of microRNA, miR-424-5p can inhibit the proliferation and invasion of HCC cells by targeting TRIM29. MiR-125a-5p can inhibit the growth and metastasis of liver cancer cells by targeting TRIAP1 and BCL2L2. MiR-490-5p inhibits the proliferation, migration and invasion of cancer cells by directly regulating ROBO1 in HCC. MiRNA-217 can inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells by regulating KLF5 in HCC. MiR-664 may target SIVA1 to promote proliferation, migration and invasion in HCC. In terms of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), LncRNAs A1BG-AS1 can inhibit the proliferation and invasion of HCC cells by targeting miR-216a-5p. While LncRNA 01123, LncRNA HAGLROS, LncRNA MNX1-AS1, LncRNA CRNDE, and LncRNA RNA CCAT2 can promote the proliferation and metastasis of HCC cells. Therefore, the above genes have potential value as prognostic biomarkers in HCC.
 At present, liver cancer has become one of the common causes of malignancy-related death globally, and its incidence is increasing year by year. The World Health Organization (WHO) predicts that more than 1 million people will die of liver cancer by. The incidence of liver cancer has remained high in Asia, as well. HCC, as the main histological subtype of liver cancer, accounts for 90% of primary liver cancer. HCC is usually caused by various risk factors, including hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, fatty liver, alcohol-related cirrhosis, smoking, obesity, different dietary exposures, etc.. Because HCC is a highly heterogeneous disease, it is difficult to predict the prognosis. HCC is highly prevalent in Asia, and it is challenging to predict prognosis. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a useful prognostic model for Asian HCC patients.
 Autophagy is the process of transporting damaged, denatured, or aging cellular components into lysosomes for digestion and degradation. Autophagy is an approach or process regulating cell metabolism that maintains homeostasis and participates in a variety of pathophysiological processes, including malignant tumors. However, the efficacy of autophagy in cancer has not yet been conclusively determined, and autophagy has been reported to have a dual function in the development of tumors. On the one hand, autophagic degradation of cellular components may provide a nutrient supply for tumor cell survival. On the other hand, it inhibits tumorigenesis by clearing toxic cellular materials. To date, researchers investigating autophagy and liver cancer have mainly focused on cancer progression and chemotherapy resistance. However, the role of autophagy in the liver cancer prognosis has rarely been explored.
 BackgroundAlthough chemotherapy is a mainstay of treatment for aggressive cancers, many agents have serious side effects. Whether or not chemotherapy will provide a net benefit to a patient depends in large part on whether the malignancy responds to the treatment. Chemotherapy is often administered in cycles, leading to multiple opportunities where treatment appropriateness may be (re-)assessed. Currently, the medical cost-benefit of chemotherapy (versus a non-pharmaceutical approach) is assessed in light of patient health status, expected therapeutic tolerance, and tumor pathological classification. For many cancer types, there is a broad spectrum of cases where the decision of whether or not to undergo chemotherapy is difficult. The development of a quantitative model that could predict—based on a specific tumor's molecular profile—whether or not the tumor will respond to chemotherapy would have significant clinical utility. Moreover, an advance in machine-learning methods for the response-to-chemotherapy prediction problem would have potential benefits for other prediction problems in medicine. Tumorigenesis is driven by alterations in the somatic genome and epigenome in cancer cells; however, the somatic genetic or epigenetic determinants of response to chemotherapy also affect gene expression. Studies of various cancer types have demonstrated that tumor gene expression biomarkers correlate with the probability that a tumor will respond to chemotherapy, for example, a five-protein signature in breast cancer, a 13-gene signature in rectal cancer, a 63-gene signature in liver cancer, and a support vector machine (SVM)-based model to predict survival time in breast cancer based on a 19-gene signature. The findings from such “omics” studies suggest that RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptome measurements of tumor samples labeled for clinical response can be used to train machine-learning classifiers for predicting response to chemotherapy. However, the accuracy of models that can be learned by fully supervised approaches is limited by the small number of available clinically labeled training cases, given that tumor transcriptome data are high-variance and high-dimensional. For typical cancers, most available tumor transcriptomes are not labeled for chemotherapeutic response; the ratio of such unlabeled to labeled tumor datasets in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA;) is in the range of 10-20, depending on the cancer type. Unlabeled data are a substantial resource that could—in the context of a semi-supervised approach—reveal multivariate patterns that could ultimately improve predictive accuracy. Semi-supervised approaches that fuse unsupervised data reduction methods for low-dimensional embedding with supervised methods (such as decision trees) for prediction have proved beneficial in problems where large unlabeled datasets are available; for example, a principal components analysis (PCA)-XGBoost method has been previously used in finance, and an independent component analysis (ICA)-based method has been used to classify electroencephalographic signals.
 Because multiple signaling pathways and genes are interrupted in tumor pathogenesis, target genes might be masked by other unnecessary genes. The competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) hypothesis provides a systemic perspective to explore potential exosome-derived biomarkers to predict GBM diagnosis and prognosis. The ceRNA network hypothesizes that crosstalk between RNAs, including long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), mRNAs and miRNAs, forms large-scale regulatory networks through shared miRNA response elements (MREs). Among them, lncRNAs act as an endogenous competitive molecule sponges that bind to miRNAs through MREs and further regulates mRNA expression. Considerable studies have confirmed the role of the lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulation network, and based on the ceRNA hypothesis, oncocers that play crucial roles in oncogenic pathways have been identified in various cancers, such as lung cancer, prostate cancer, and liver cancer. These results suggest the significance of the ceRNA network in the comprehensive analysis of gene interactions and the identification of potential biomarkers for tumor diagnosis, therapy, and prognosis.
 Because the liver is not only the largest metabolic organ in our body, but is also associated with almost all the central metabolic processes, tumorigenesis or tumor progression in the liver inevitably result in the reprogramming of metabolism. In the case when nutrition supply is adequate, the Warburg effect and glutaminolysis are major characteristic metabolic modes in cancer. Generally, in contrast with normal differentiated cells, most cancer cells or undifferentiated cells (such as stem cells) rely primarily on aerobic glycolysis rather than mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to metabolize glucose to generate energy for cellular processes. This phenomenon was first described by Otto Warburg in 1924, and is hence termed the ‘Warburg effect'. In addition, many cancer cells preferably metabolize glutamine, a nonessential amino acid; this phenomenon is called ‘glutaminolysis'. Glutamine is not only a nitrogen source for amino acid and nucleotide synthesis but is also a major carbon source for the tricarboxylic acid cycle and macromolecule biosynthesis; thus, cancer cells cannot survive without an exogenous supply of glutamine. However, whether reprogrammed metabolism has a crucial impact on chemotherapeutic resistance in liver cancer is still unclear. More importantly, besides the Warburg effect and glutaminolysis, cancers also can depend on autophagy, a protective ‘self-eating' metabolic process, to recycle obsolete components and supplement energy so as to support aberrant cell growth under metabolic dysfunction or when cells are suffering nutritional limitations, especially in the liver. Of note, there is a longtime conjecture that the intimate connection and reciprocal conversion between the Warburg effect, glutaminolysis and autophagy determine cancer therapeutic efficacy. Even so, their significance and association with chemotherapeutic resistance in liver cancer are totally unknown.
 Bioinformatics analysis is a convenient tool to identify the mA regulatory factors that are suitable for tumor classification and prognosis of various types of cancers. Evidence indicates the association of mA modification with tumor proliferation, differentiation, invasion, and metastasis in many malignant tumors like glioblastoma, breast cancer, liver cancer, acute myeloid leukemia, lung cancer, colorectal cancer and urological tumors, such as prostate cancer, renal cell carcinoma, bladder cancer, Wilms tumor and testicular germ cell tumors. With further expansion of research, we will see the magnificent impact of mA on cancer cell proliferation.
 By 2018, it was estimated that nearly 841, 800 new liver cancer cases and 781, 631 deaths due to liver cancers were recorded across 20 world regions. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for approximately 80% of primary liver cancers, and ranks fifth among the most common malignancies and the third leading because of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Hepatitis B or C (HBV) viral infections are known to cause chronic liver cirrhosis and account for approximately 80-90% of all the HCC cases. Other risk factors include excessive alcohol consumption, obesity, aflatoxin B contamination, iron overload, and environmental pollutants. HCC is a fatal malignancy characterized by high metastasis and recurrence after surgery leading to poor prognosis and very low survival rates. Several treatments including hepatic resection, liver transplantation, image-guided tumor ablation, transcatheter tumor therapy, and systemic therapy have been developed to control HCC. However, patient survival rates are still low despite these treatments. The 5-year survival rate of HCC is about 7%. Identification of novel diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets is crucial for improving prognosis of HCC patients.
 Cancer is a major because of death worldwide and results in considerable social and economic burdens; breast, lung, and liver cancer are the main causes of high mortality worldwide. Despite improvements in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, the prevalence of cure is low. Tumor immunotherapy has greatly improved the clinical outcomes of cancer patients, but many patients remain insensitive to immunotherapy. Therefore, it is urgent to determine the underlying molecular mechanism of cancer progression and identification of specific and sensitive biomarkers for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
 Cancer is a major public health issue worldwide. In recent years, as there is continuous development in technology, epigenetic research in cancer epidemiology has become popular. RNA methylation refers to the development of methylation modifications at different locations on RNA molecules. More than 150 RNA methylation modifications have been identified as post-transcriptional regulatory markers in eukaryotes, 3 and these modifications can regulate biological metabolic processes such as variable RNA splicing, exonucleation, stabilization, and translation. 4-6 Research about RNA methylation modifications in cancer has only started. Although several studies have assessed RNA methylation modifications in recent years, their mechanism of development in tumors is still not fully elucidated. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) is a tumor genomics program that aims to use high-throughput genomic analysis techniques to better understand tumor characteristics and improve tumor prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. Currently, TCGA contains information about sequencing results, transcriptome analysis, copy number variants, DNA methylation, and single nucleotide variants and covers 33 tumor types, thereby providing an advantage in pan-cancer research. This paper presents a pan-cancer analysis of the role of RNA methylation in tumors to provide novel ideas and targets for the assessment of tumor pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment. In addition, we have analysed the role of RNA methylation genes in HCC based on clinical samples of liver cancer and performed experimental validation.
 Cancer is believed to be a leading because of mortality in the 21st century and a main obstacle in improving life expectancy worldwide. It is estimated that liver cancer is the sixth most common cancer and the fourth leading because of death in the world in 2018, with an annual increase of 841, 000 cases and 782, 000 deaths. Among primary liver cancers, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most frequent (75%-85%). More than half of the new cases and deaths due to liver cancers occur in China, with an increase of 466, 100 cases and 422, 100 deaths in. To make matters worse, HCC brings about a tremendous economic burden and exhibits poor prognosis owing to the failure of early diagnosis and effective treatment. Hence, it is crucial to gain an insight into the role of the pathogenesis of HCC and develop novel prognostic predictors and targeted agents.
 Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are strongly involved in chemoresistance, which is the major culprit for the poor outcome in colorectal cancer (CRC). In recent decades, mutant p has been reported to have gained a novel function in inducing dedifferentiation of somatic cells to CSCs, raising considerable postulation if mutant p enhances chemoresistance through mediating cancer cell stemness. The common gene signature and transcription factor shared by embryonic stem cells and breast undifferentiated tumors also strengthened this notion. Many studies have suggested that inactivation of p leads to cancer stemness. Pinho et al. observed stemness features including elevated sphere formation and expression of CSC makers in pancreatic cells with homozygous p deletion. Loss of p could trigger cellular plasticity from somatic cells to pluripotent cells through activating nestin in liver cancer. However, only a few pieces of evidence clearly described the role of mutant p in driving the CSC phenotype. The possible novel plastic property of mutant p in cancer cell stemness was firstly proposed by Sarig's research. Grespi et al. further identified a cluster of mutant p-dependent mRNAs that participated in the transition from embryonic fibroblasts to induce pluripotent stem cells. A few molecules were proposed to participate in mutant p-driven cancer stemness, such as PI3K/AKT2 and YAP/TAZ.
 Carcinogenesis is a multi-step process, which is a change caused by signal pathways triggered by multiple genes, which transforms normal cells into malignant cells. The molecular mechanism of the occurrence and development of HCC are unclear. However, it is considered that, at the beginning of the preneoplastic stage, genetic changes in a few genes and chromosomal loci will slowly accelerate and enhance the transition of hepatocytes from atypical hyperplasia to liver cancer. With the development of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies, we have located key carcinogenic genes and related oncogenic signaling pathways that play a pivotal role in the initiation and progression of HCC. However, despite the availability of a large amount of public genetic information, effective diagnostic methods are needed to predict the prognosis of HCC.
 CCNA2 (cyclin A2) is a cyclin accumulated in G1 phase and plays a regulatory role in the transitional period of G1/S and G2/M. Published literature has reported that CCNA2 functions on various cancers, like colorectal cancer, liver cancer, breast cancer, cervical cancer, and EC. In the present study, we found that miR-29c-3p was remarkably down-regulated in EC cells. Then bioinformatics methods were performed to predict the targets of miR-29c-3p, and CCNA2 was selected for further investigation, in turn evaluating the potential of miR-29c-3p/CCNA2 axis as an effective therapy for EC.
 CCNB2 as a member of cyclin family, plays a key role in G2/M transformation and has been found to be upregulated in human cancers. For instance, CCNB2 overexpression in human liver cancer is associated with poor prognosis and the decrease of CCNB2 expression inhibits metastasis and invasion of bladder cancer. In addition, by analyzing Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and constructing PPI network, Piao et al found that 14 genes including CCNB2 and CDC20 were associated with the prognosis of NSCLC patients. Based on bioinformatics, Ni et al obtained 15 genes including CCNB2 and EGR1 that were expected to be potential biomarkers and candidate targets for LUAD, which would be helpful to the diagnosis and treatment of LUAD. However, the specific mechanism of CCNB2 regulating the development of LUAD remains elusive.
 CD161 is expressed on natural killer cells, subsets of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. A recent study using single-cell RNA sequencing of tumour-infiltrating T cells discovered that CD161 acts as a potential inhibitory receptor in liver cancer and glioma. C-Type lectin domain family 2 member D, the ligand of CD161, is expressed on the cell membranes of malignant tumour cells, forming a ligand-receptor pathway for immunotherapy. Previous research has proven that the expression of CD161 in lung cancer is associated with better clinical outcomes. Another study proved that CD8+PD-1+CD161+ T cell subsets have stronger cytotoxicity and proliferative capacity in hepatocellular carcinoma. In addition, blocking he interaction could enhance NK cell-mediated lysis in triple-negative breast cancer. These results indicated an essential role of CD161 in tumour immunomodulation. However, there have been no comprehensive pan-cancer studies on CD161.
 Cell death is a complex process, that is, achieved through pathological and physiological ways. One form of cell death is necroptosis, which can be acquired in a programmed way during the development of certain organisms. Unlike typical apoptosis and necrosis, necroptosis induces cell death when the apoptotic mechanism fails. Necroptosis is closely related to the immune microenvironment and can induce cell rupture, activate inflammatory response while releasing cellular contents, and promote infiltration of many inflammatory cells. Receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 3 (RIPK3) can act as a critical regulator of necroptosis to affect the function of immune cells by regulating the activation of natural killer T (NKT) cells and dendritic cells (DCs). The pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD (OH)-FMK (zVAD) has been reported to induce necroptosis in melanoma via reducing tumor infiltration by regulatory T cells (Tregs) while increasing DC and CD8+ T cells to reduce tumor growth. Necroptosis also plays a vital role in HCC since heparinase can induce necrotic proliferation of microvascular endothelial cells and promote liver cancer metastasis. Hence, necroptosis may be a potential target for HCC therapy.
 Certain viruses harbor the potential to affect human health by altering host immunity and the genome, potentially contributing to chronic disease and cancer. Previously thought to be non-pathogenic in humans, the adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a DNA virus commonly used as a vector in gene therapy. In European and a few Japanese hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients, it has been shown that AAV strains similar to AAV2 or AAV13 have the potential to integrate into genes including CCNA2 and CCNE1, contributing to oncogenesis. Here, we use the notation AAV2/13 because the observed AAV sequences in HCC come from strains between the fully-sequenced AAV2 and the partly-sequenced AAV13. The latter study emphasized that some integrated sequences best match AAV2, while other integrated sequences lie between AAV2 and AAV13 in an AAV phylogenetic tree. Additionally, the risk of insertional oncogenesis for liver cancer has been suggested in animal models of AAV2-based gene therapy. In mouse experiments with gene therapy, at least part of the risk appears to be due to the integration of AAV vectors at a particular locus called Rian, for which there is no orthologous locus in the human genome. Recent reports on long-term studies of AAV-based therapy for hemophilia A in dogs and hemophilia B in humans found no cases of liver cancer, but the sample sizes are small.
 Checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1) was initially identified as a serine/threonine kinase and functions as a key component in the DNA damage response (DDR) pathway and cell cycle checkpoints. When ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) and ATR (ATM and rad-related) kinases are activated by DNA damage and replication stress, activated ATR phosphorylates and induces CHK1 activation. CHK1 transduces checkpoint signal to hold cell cycle arrest. This delay allows time for DNA to repair damage, or induce apoptosis if damage is severe. Overexpression of CHK1 contributes to resistance of anti-tumour chemotherapy or radiotherapy in numerous tumours including breast, colon, gastric and liver cancer.
 Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) has long been deemed as a malignancy with poor prognosis in liver cancer. Patients conflicted by cholangiocarcinoma often are found in late stages, who were not candidates for surgery and seldom benefit from chemotherapy or comprehensive treatment. Though blockade of programmed cell death receptor 1/programmed cell death receptor ligand 1 (PD1/PDL1) axis with mono-antibody, Pembrolizumab and Nivolumab, has she would light on partial patients, who showed high PDL1 expression in tumors, the overall treating efficacy in advanced CCA patients still needs further observation. Understanding tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and infiltration status of CCA could better guide the clinical appliance of immunotherapy.
 Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly lethal and aggressive malignancy originating from the biliary epithelium. Based on the anatomical site of origin, CCA can be classified into three subtypes including perihilar (pCCA), distal (dCCA), and intrahepatic (iCCA). iCCA accounts for 10-20% of primary liver cancers and approximately 20% of biliary-tract cancers. Postoperative 5-year overall survival (OS) in iCCA patients is poor (30-40%). In the last decade, iCCA has shown an increasing incidence rate and mortality worldwide, which contrasts with the decreasing trends shown by pCCA and dCCA. Surgical resection is currently the mainstay of curative-intent treatment for patients in the early stage; however, the vast majority of patients miss the opportunity for radical surgery. Nevertheless, even after resection, iCCA patients show a high incidence of recurrence. These findings highlight the importance of discovering novel prognostic biomarkers and constructing predictive models for patients with iCCA. Such approaches can be used to make treatment determinations and improve patient prognosis.
 Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is an epithelial cell malignancy originating from cholangiocytes. CCA, together with liver cancer, is reported to be the fifth leading because of cancer-associated mortality in 2018 in the USA. Currently, surgical resection remains the mainstay of curative treatment, although it is only available for selected patients. Poor prognosis, even with ideal surgery, is the key problem in CCA. The 5-year overall survival (OS) rate of CCA is 15-40%, and the post-surgical recurrence rate is 50-60%.
 Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is the second most common primary liver cancer after hepatocellular carcinoma, with incidence and mortality rates rising across the world. Despite surgery and liver transplantation being options for patients, the high recurrence rate leads to CCA patients' median survival time of less than one year. Moreover, whether adjuvant therapy after surgical resection is effective, because data about its overall efficacy and survival benefits are limited. Clinicopathological factors of CCA such as grade and stage are strongly associated with prognosis and are also key factors determining the therapeutic regimen. However, even with similar clinical characteristics, the prognosis of CCA patients is significantly different. Therefore, it is important to identify efficient tumor features to help clinicians stratify high-risk patients and tailor personalized treatment regimens for improving treatment outcomes.
 Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is the second most common primary liver cancer worldwide. During the past few decades, incidence and high recurrence rates for all CCA were closely correlated to poor outcomes. Unfortunately, there is still no better way to accurately predict recurrence. Although TNM staging systems according to different versions of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) had shown valuable but still insufficient for predicting relapse in different subtypes of CCA.
 Circadian disruption is one of the group 2A human carcinogens identified by WHO. Many epidemiological studies have shown that disorder of the circadian rhythm is related to worse prognosis and increased risks of cancer. For example, long-period shiftwork is correlated with higher risk of the development of prostate and breast cancers. Also, the hazard ratio of rectal cancer and lung cancer is increased after exposure to shiftwork. Some in vivo experiments have also confirmed the pattern: hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus ablation in normal mice or tumor-bearing mice strongly accelerates tumor progression. In addition, mice with genetic alterations in some clock genes can more easily develop teratomas, lymphoma, liver cancer, and ovarian cancer. However, to date, the detailed effects of clock genes on NSCLC as well as their underlying mechanisms remain unclear.
 Clinical observation of the association between cancer aggressiveness and embryonic development stage implies the importance of developmental signals in cancer initiation and therapeutic resistance. However, the dynamic gene expression during organogenesis and the master oncofetal drivers are still unclear, which impeded the efficient elimination of poor prognostic tumors, including human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In this study, human embryonic stem cells were induced to differentiate into adult hepatocytes along hepatic lineages to mimic liver development in vitro. Combining transcriptomic data from liver cancer patients with the hepatocyte differentiation model, the active genes derived from different hepatic developmental stages and the tumor tissues were selected. Bioinformatic analysis followed by experimental assays was used to validate the tumor subtype-specific oncofetal signatures and potential therapeutic values. Hierarchical clustering analysis revealed the existence of two subtypes of liver cancer with different oncofetal properties. The gene signatures and their clinical significance were further validated in an independent clinical cohort and The Cancer Genome Atlas database. Upstream activator analysis and functional screening further identified E2F1 and SMAD3 as master transcriptional regulators. Small-molecule inhibitors specifically targeting the oncofetal drivers extensively down-regulated subtype-specific developmental signaling and inhibited tumorigenicity. Liver cancer cells and primary HCC tumors with different oncofetal properties also showed selective vulnerability to their specific inhibitors. Further precise targeting of the tumor initiating steps and driving events according to subtype-specific biomarkers might eliminate tumor progression and provide novel therapeutic strategy.
 Colon cancer (carcinoma of colon) is a common malignant tumor in the gastrointestinal tract. Its morbidity and mortality are only second to gastric cancer, esophageal cancer and primary liver cancer in malignant tumors of the digestive system. Recent studies have shown that autophagy is involved in the occurrence and development of malignant tumors, neurodegenerative diseases, tissue fibrosis, cardiovascular diseases and immune diseases. Depending on how the intracellular substrate is degraded and transported to the lysosomal cavity, autophagy can be divided into three types: macroautophagy, microautophagy, and chaperone-mediate autophgy.
 Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common form of malignant tumor in gastrointestinal tract cancer, and the symptoms in the early stages are unobservable. With the increase of cancer, the patients defecation pattern change, blood in the stool, diarrhea, alternating diarrhea and constipation, and other clinical symptoms. Colorectal cancer is often first diagnosed at an advanced stage with systemic symptoms such as anemia and weight loss. The incidence and mortality of CRC are second only to gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, and primary liver cancer. The number of new cases and deaths of CRC continues to increase, and the global burden of colorectal cancer worldwide will increase significantly in the near future, and chronic colitis will be responsible for a significant increase in CRC incidence. The etiology and pathogenesis of CRC mainly considered related to metabolic changes, high fat and low cellulose diet, chronic inflammation of the colon, colon polyps, familial inheritance and other factors. Controlling these potential factors may help reduce the incidence of CRC0. Many natural products have a variety of biological activities, and finding drugs to treat diseases from natural products has received increasing recognition. The active products screened out from edible plants have great utility value.
 Compared with the Cox PH model, the deep learning models showed improved prediction accuracy by flexibly integrating a large number of genomics features without strong parametric assumptions. For example, the DeepSurv model used the deep neural network to integrate the biomarker genes and personal treatment information to improve the survival time prediction. The DeepHit model also used a deep neural network, and jointly model different events, like different causes of death. In the liver cancer subtyping and survival analysis, the auto-encoder model was first employed to reduce the dimensions of the feature space given the large-number of genomics features (e. g., gene expression, miRNA, methylation). The important features (non-linear combinations of raw genomics features) were identified using the Cox PH model for clustering analysis which identified sub-groups with distinct survival outcomes. Then, the analysis of variance (ANOVA) based on the clustering results was applied to the raw genomics features to further identify the important genes. However, the auto-encoder model itself was not used to identify the important raw genomics features in a non-linear perspective. In the Cox-nnet model, RNA-seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) samples was used as the input in a deep neural network to predict the survival time. To identify the potentially associated signaling pathways of hidden nodes, the Pearson's correlation values between the expression of individual genes and the output of the given hidden nodes were calculated to identify the most linearly correlated genes. Then, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was employed to link the hidden nodes with the enriched signaling pathways. Moreover, the Survival Convolutional Neural Networks (SCNN) was developed to predict survival using histologic images of cancer patients. Finally, heat map visualizations of the regions of interest (image patches) from the SCNN model output were overlaid on the image to indicate the significant regions in the images correlated with survival outcome.
 Considering that HCC is an extremely heterogeneous disease and targeted therapies and personalized management become promising these days, the specific genomic sub-classification of HCC patients is of great significance for the improvement of prognosis assessment. Here, we attempted to identify specific genes that are significantly dysregulated only in HCC rather than in the other subtypes of the liver cancer like intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) and the secondary liver cancer. Although therapeutic approaches for ICC are similar to HCC, the clinical outcome is relatively poorer than HCC, partly due to different molecular pathologic mechanisms. As for the metastatic liver cancer (MLC), colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRCLM) was adopted as an example here, which was a common type of secondary liver cancer. Like other MLC, the treatment for CRCLM needs multidisciplinary approaches because of complex complications of primary cancer and secondary liver cancer. Though hepatectomy is an optimal approach, the prognosis of CRCLM largely depended on primary cancer that differed from HCC. Therefore, the specificity of the prognostic model is fetal to the precise prognostic prediction and therapeutic decision-making of HCC. In this study, we aimed to develop a specific, accurate and robust genetic prognostic risk score system for HCC.
 Considering that inflammasomes play an important role in keeping the integrity of intestinal epithelium and promoting immune surveillance, dysregulation of pyroptosis is associated with some kinds of bacteria-triggered intestinal inflammation and occurrence of tumors. Pyroptosis can inhibit the proliferation and metastasis of some types of cancer, mainly including gastric, colon, breast, ovarian and liver cancers. Inflammasome-associated proteins, such as NLRs and ALRs, respond rapidly to various signals, especially microbes invading the gut, highlighting their importance for diseases, including colitis and colorectal cancer. IL-18 and IL-1β, activated by pyroptosis-related pathways responsible for inducing inflammation and keeping the integrity of epithelial barrier, showed their protective role against colitis-associated colon adenocarcinoma.
 CSCs are generally identified by related biomarkers such as CD133, CD44s, CD90, and epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM). We have already known that CD133 (+) liver cancer cells can promote chemotherapy resistance, and increased CD133 expression is an independent prognostic factor for HCC patients. Furthermore, it is reported that the cytoplasmic expression of CD133 is significantly associated with the survival of HCC patients. In addition, CD44s is also associated with poor prognosis in patients with HCC. CD90 expression is associated with early recurrence of HCC. EpCAM+ HCC cells are associated with the aggressiveness and metastasis of HCC and are closely related to overall survival. Therefore, stem cell characteristics are important factors which can affect tumor recurrence and progression. The mRNAsi is an important index of CSC, and a higher mRNAsi score is associated with a greater tumor dedifferentiation. As we know, abnormal mRNA expression plays an important role in tumor biology, and some abnormal mRNAs can affect the self-renewal, proliferation, and development of CSCs. Therefore, abnormally expressed mRNAs in HCC can be used as biomarkers for evaluating the prognosis of HCC patients.
 Currently available curative methods for HCC include radical resection, ablation, and liver transplantation, however, only 10-30% of patients are eligible for these treatments. Recent therapeutic development in HCC includes the establishment of ablation for small HCC, and sorafenib, lenvatinib, and immune checkpoint inhibitors for advanced cases. However, response rate of HCC towards chemotherapy, radiotherapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy is relatively low, limiting their therapeutic effect in advanced cases. Despite the survival improvement benefited from above-mentioned development of treatment, liver cancer ranges the second most fatal malignancy, with a five-year survival rate of 18%, following pancreatic cancer. Therefore, the development of diagnosis and treatment of HCC is urgently needed, and exploring the molecular mechanism and identifying the molecules related to prognosis have far-reaching significance for improving the long-term prognosis of HCC patients.
 Currently, it is believed that tumor-promoting immune disease is the because of the development of liver cancer. HCC cells can stimulate an obvious immune response and provide an appropriate microenvironment for their development. Immunotherapy as a supplementary treatment for HCC has been increasingly studied due to the poor prognosis after standard treatments. In addition, several immune-related parameters have been reported to predict the prognosis of HCC patients, further emphasizing the importance of immunological status in determining the HCC prognosis.
 Currently, many approaches, such as the TNM staging system of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC), the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) classification, and the Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP) staging system, have been employed to evaluate the prognosis of HCC patients. However, their assessment criteria mainly rely on the clinicopathological features of HCC patients but do not take into account the critical and complicated molecular pathogenesis, an important factor in determining the outcome of HCC. Therefore, their prognostic predictive performance was unsatisfactory. Meanwhile, serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) detection and medical imaging techniques are clinically used for post-surgery surveillance of recurrence in HCC patients, but with limited effectiveness due to the low specificity and sensitivity of those surveillance means.
 Currently, surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy are three major therapeutic options for cervical cancer, although they have limited efficiency for advanced or recurrent cervical cancers. Recently, immunotherapies, particularly immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), exhibit efficiency for various solid tumors, such as melanoma, lung cancer, head and neck cancer, kidney cancer, bladder cancer, triple-negative breast cancer, cervical cancer, liver cancer, prostate cancer, and gastrointestinal cancers with mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR). ICIs can induce the regression of certain virus infection-related epithelial malignancies, such as HPV-related cervical, head and neck, and anal cancers. In fact, the use of ICIs for treating recurrent or metastatic cervical cancers has recently approved by FDA, although less than 20% of cancer patients have an active response to ICIs.
 Deep learning has been used to learn prognostic subtypes of glioblastoma using pan-cancer gene expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), predict drug synergy based on cancer cell gene expression data, and predict survival based on multi-omics integrated data in liver cancer etc.. It is important to explain the model in a meaningful way to understand the deep learning model and its limitations. A typical deep learning model involves millions of parameters, which makes it a difficult task to understand. We propose to use feature importance ranking within the deep learning model. While feature importance ranking is popular with machine learning, its use within the deep learning model is rare, especially in cancer genomics where a model usually includes thousands of features. In this paper, we expand the permutation feature importance techniques to deep learning. Our goal is to study the inside of a trained deep learning model to discover prognostic gene features in glioblastoma.
 Deleted in liver cancer 1 (DLC1) was initially identified in a primary human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in. It acts as a switch by promoting the conversion of the active RhoGTP into the inactive RhoGDP to affect the cytoskeleton, focal adhesion, and cell migration. DLC1 was considered as a metastasis suppressor gene in EC, but its functional mechanisms remain unclear. We speculated that DLC1 was relevant to the prognosis of EC through immune infiltrates. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive assessment of the relationship between DLC1 and patient prognosis using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. We further investigated the link between DLC1 and immune cell infiltration of tumors using CIBERSORT to investigate the aforementioned assumptions. Our results offered novel insights into the functional role of DLC1 in EC, thereby highlighting a potential mechanistic basis whereby DLC1 influenced immune cell interaction with tumors. The restoration of DLC1 expression in cancer cells induced apoptosis and senescence; inhibited cell growth, migration, and invasiveness; and reduced tumor formation.
 Deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) 26S proteasome non-ATPase regulatory subunit 14 (PSMD14), also known as RPN11 and POH1, is one of essential components of 19S proteasomal subunit. JAB1/MPN/Mov (JAMM) domain is crucial for the DUB activity of PSMD14, which cleaves off conjugates of ubiquitin depending on Zn+5. Through regulating protein deubiquitination and stabilization, PSMD14 is implicated in various biological processes, including differentiation 6, cell viability 7, pluripotency 8, autophagy 9, DNA break responses and tumor progression. In hepatocellular carcinoma, PSMD14 enhanced the activation of TGF-β signaling and tumor metastasis by deubiquitinating TGF-β receptors and caveolin-1 13. Moreover, PSMD14-mediated E2F1 stabilization could promote tumor formation in liver cancer. Therefore, PSMD14 is considered to become a promising target for cancer therapy. Inhibitors of PSMD14, however, have not been preliminarily investigated so far.
 Digestive cancers are a group of cancers that occur in the digestive tract, and include gastric cancer (GC), colorectal cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, esophageal cancer, and pancreatic cancer. Digestive cancers accounted for around 26% of cancer cases and 35% of cancer deaths in the world in. Among them, the morbidity and mortality of GC in Eastern Asia is much higher than the worldwide average level. In China, the incidence of GC is only lower than lung cancer, and the mortality is third to lung cancer and liver cancer. Most patients suffering from early stage GC are asymptomatic and always develop distant metastasis at the time of diagnosis. Surgery is the main treatment for GC. Adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy combined with surgery is commonly used to treat advanced GC, while targeted drugs for advanced GC, such as the HER2 (also known as ERBB2) antibody trastuzumab, and the VEGFR-2 antibody ramucirumab, are still in clinical trials. Therefore, developing biomarkers for the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic response of digestive cancers, especially of GC, is necessary and urgent for reducing the mortality rate.
 Discovery of the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms through study of circular RNAs in tumor patients could improve the diagnosis and therapeutics of these cancers. Developments in the field of circRNA concerning breast cancer are recent. With more and more patients suffering from this cancer there is an urgent need for new biomarkers and treatment targets. In a previous study, a novel circular RNA (circ_0003645) was highly expressed in lung cancer cells, endothelial cells and hepatocellular carcinoma cells and regulated cell progression through the ceRNA mechanism. Nevertheless, the expression profiles and functions of circ_0003645 in breast cancer remain largely unknown. Other studies reported that miR-139-3p showed relatively lower expression in malignant glioma, liver cancer and cervical cancer cases, and it could inhibit the proliferation, migration and metastasis of tumor cells. 22-
 DLGAP5 protein, also known as HURP (Hepatoma Up-Regulated Protein) or KIAA0008, was first identified as a cell-cycle-regulated protein. Also as a microtuble-associated protein (MAP), DLGAP5 stabilizes k-fibers and promotes chromosome aggregation by regulating KifA localization and dynamics at the plus end of kinetochore microtubules (K-MTs). Both structure and function analyses of DLGAP5 have been conducted from the angle of physiology and clinical pathology across different biological species]. Many studies have been conducted to focus on the multifunctional DLGAP5 protein and have reported functional correspondence between DLGAP5 and tumorigenesis of liver cancer, pancreatic cancer, lung cancer, and ovarian cancer. Although DLGAP5 has been studied in different tumors, respectively, there still remains lack of pan-cancer analysis that demonstrates the correlation between DLGAP5 and divergent tumor types.
 Due to the close relationship between autophagy and tumors, we designed this study to explore the relationship between autophagy and the prognosis of patients with liver cancer. Here, we identified genes that are closely related to the prognosis of patients with liver cancer using bioinformatics methods such as Cox regression analysis and survival analysis, provided ideas for subsequent mechanistic studies, and established models for predicting survival.
 Dysregulation of AS has been described in many disorders, especially tumorigenesis. While isomers of “oncogenes” regulate the apoptosis of tumor cells, “tumor suppressor genes” regulate the migration and invasion ability of tumor cells. For instance, the apoptosis-related gene BCL-X encodes two protein isomers, BCL-XL and BCL-XS, through two different spliceosomes. These two isomers exhibit opposite effects on the regulation of apoptosis. BCL-XL inhibits apoptosis, while BCL-XS promotes apoptosis; BCL-XL is highly expressed in myeloid leukemia and indicates a poor prognosis, while BCL-XS is expressed at low levels in renal cancer, liver cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, and other tumor cell lines. The proportions of Bcl-XL and Bcl-XS are regulated by splicing factors, such as SAM68, which can promote the expression of BCL-XS and induce apoptosis. A previous study showed that KAI1 is a tumor suppressor gene that can inhibit tumor metastasis. However, more recent studies have demonstrated that the isomer kai-sp, which lacks exon 7, is involved in the metastasis of gastric cancer. In ovarian cancer, kai-sp has been shown to be more highly expressed in metastatic cancer. Other studies have shown that this isomer has a carcinogenic effect and is correlated with the invasive ability of tumor cells. Several key splicing factors (SFs) regulate complex AS events. Changes in SF expression may lead to overall changes in some cancer-specific AS events, thus affecting the occurrence and development of cancer. As mentioned above, these results indicate that the potential splicing factor-alternative splicing (SF-AS) regulatory network may provide a new perspective for exploring biomarkers and the mechanisms of tumorigenesis.
 Emerging evidence has discovered that circRNAs are differentially expressed in liver cancer cells and act as oncogenes in HCC. For instance, Xiufeng Yu et al. demonstrated that circMAST1 circular RNA is upregulated in HCC tissues, leading to cell proliferation and migration, which sponges miR-1229 and regulates CTNND1 expression.
 Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 (EZH2) is a member of the Polycomb group (PcG) family that forms multimeric protein complexes; the PcG family is involved in maintaining the transcriptional repressive state of genes over successive cell generations and in controlling the progression of the cell cycle, and it participates in the maintenance of cell differentiation. As EZH2 regulates cell cycle progression, its dysregulation accelerates cell proliferation and prolongs cell survival, which may lead to carcinogenesis and cancer development. An increasing number of studies have revealed that EZH2 is abnormally expressed in numerous tumors, including liver cancer, gastric cancer, and breast cancer, and correlates with tumor progression, metastasis, and drug resistance in prostate cancer cells. In recent years, an increasing number of studies have suggested that EZH2 may be a novel molecule involved in HCC progression, as well as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target. Liu et al. suggested EZH2/miR-622/CXCR4 as a potential adverse prognostic factor and therapeutic target for HCC patients. Similarly, Bae et al. shared the same view that overexpression of EZH2 was an independent biomarker for poor outcomes of HCC, and that EZH2 may be used as a therapeutic target in patients with HCC. However, comprehensive studies on the expression, prognosis, mutation, and biological mechanisms of EZH2 are still lacking in HCC. In addition, the relevance of EZH2 to tumor immune infiltration is uncertain in HCC.
 Epidemiological studies have shown that chronic low-level inflammation can significantly increase the risk of cancer. On the one hand, during chronic inflammation caused by viral infections, a long-term abnormal expression of related proteins may induce physiological diseases and form a potential carcinogenic microenvironment. On the other hand, the occurrence and development of tumors also affect the inflammatory response process. The global burden of hepatitis B virus (HBV) is enormous, with 257 million people chronically infected, causing more than 880, 000 deaths worldwide each year. HBV has all the characteristics of ancient human pathogens, has chronic infections, including a prolonged asymptomatic period, and then gradually develops into clinical diseases. Persistent antiviral inflammation during chronic infection, immune clearance of virally infected cells, and hepatocyte regeneration all increase the risk of viral infectious liver disease developing into liver cancer. At present, vaccines and nucleoside or nucleotide drugs have been developed, with high coverage and efficacy. However, related studies have shown that vaccination and antiviral therapy can reduce infections but not completely eliminate risks, and reduce the rate of new infections and the development of liver disease. Overall, up to 40% of men and women infected with HBV during the perinatal period will die from cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma. There are many studies on the basis of clinical epidemiological studies on the mechanism of the relationship between hepatitis B and hepatitis B-related hepatocellular carcinoma, and significant progress has been made. However, few molecular targeted studies can comprehensively summarize the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of patients with progressive hepatitis B.
 Epidemiological studies have shown that the incidence of liver cancer is the sixth most common worldwide. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type, which has the characteristics of high recurrence rate and poor prognosis. Surgical treatment (including hepatectomy and liver transplantation) is the primary treatment for HCC, however, due to early HCC patients having no obvious symptoms, the majority of HCC patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage without the chance of surgery. Lenvatinib and sorafenib are the first-line agents for advanced HCC, with a median survival time of 12. 3 versus 13. 6 months. The emergence of immunotherapy has brought new light to the treatment of HCC. At present, immune checkpoints inhibitors (ICIs) monotherapy (nivolumab, pembrolizumab, camrelizumab, etc.) is mainly used for the second-line treatment of advanced HCC and several relevant clinical trials are being carried out. However, although there are many options of treatment for advanced HCC, only a fraction of patients can benefit from it in clinical practice. Therefore, there is an urgent requirement to develop a potential signature to classify HCC patients for individualized treatment.
 Epigenetic modification of DNA plays an important role in regulating gene activity and transcript levels without directly changing the gene sequence. DNA methylation is one of the most common epigenetic mechanisms and has been shown to impact multiple biological processes. Consequently, aberrant DNA methylation has been associated with multiple human cancers including prostate cancer, breast cancer and liver cancer. Moreover, a strong relationship between DNA methylation and cancer development has been found, which has resulted in DNA methylation being used as a prognostic marker in many cancer types. Therefore, array-based or sequencing-based approaches have been developed to measure large-scale DNA methylation profiles. The Illumina methylation array platform provides an opportunity to generate genome-wide human DNA methylation profile, and the Illumina HumanMethylation BeadChip is one of the most commonly utilized platforms for investigating DNA methylation in a comprehensive manner. It contains 450 000 CpG probes that cover 99% of Refseq genes, encompassing promoters, gene bodies, UTRs and intergenic regions.
 Epigenetics can regulate gene expression at multiple levels, including not only DNA methylation, histone acetylation and chromatin remodeling, but also post-transcriptional modification of RNA. mA modification is the most common internal modification of eukaryotic messenger RNA (mRNA), which is essential for cell survival and development. The methylation of mA is catalyzed by methyltransferase complexes including methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) and methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14) and its cofactor Wilms tumor I associated protein (WTAP). It is a reversible and dynamic RNA modification that can affect thousands of mRNAs and non-coding RNAs in cells. In recent years, a lot of studies have found that mA methyltransferase plays an important role in the occurrence and prognosis of malignant tumors. Overexpression of METTL14 can promote the proliferation and metastasis of liver cancer cells, leading to a worse prognosis for patients. Studies have found that the METTL3 expression is upregulated in human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines. Researchers have found that METTL3 is associated with longer survival in patients with lung adenocarcinoma, and METTL3 can be used as a biomarker to predict the prognosis of lung adenocarcinoma. Another study found that upregulation of METTL3 is not only associated with longer overall survival (OS) in lung adenocarcinoma, but also associated with better recurrence-free survival (RFS). This suggests that mA methyltransferase may be a new biomarker used to effectively predict the prognosis of tumors. However, as the second most pathological subtype of lung cancer, lung squamous cell carcinoma, such research is still relatively rare.
 Epigenetics is a dynamic and heritable modification of independent DNA sequences. Abnormal epigenetic changes can destroy the expression balance of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes and promote tumorigenesis. Common epigenetic modifications include DNA methylation, RNAma methylation, and histone acetylation, which are considered the main mechanisms of regulation during cancer progression. Previous studies have focused on the functional exploration of single epigenetic-related genes but lack extensive exploration. Moreover, the value of these genes in the diagnosis and prognosis of liver cancer is still unclear. In this study, we collected five kinds of epigenetically related genes (ERGs), a total of 2397 genes, including RNAma modification-related genes, histone modification-related genes, DNA methylation modification-related genes, RNA binding proteins and transcription factors. To explore them in HCC, we analyzed the differentially expressed epigenetic-related genes in HCC by WGCNA and constructed an apparent regulatory network. To optimize the treatment system of HCC, we integrated epigenetic-related genes to build a diagnostic and prognostic model and compared the signal differences between the high-risk group and the low-risk group by GSEA and GSVA.
 Especially in Asian and African populations, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third greatest because of cancer death worldwide, coming in at number five behind lung and breast cancer. Approximately 1 million individuals are predicted to die each year from HCC since this disease is so easily confused with cirrhosis, making early detection difficult and leading to a dramatic rise in HCC patients. Despite endeavors in the field of science and tremendous advances in understanding the fundamental molecular event in HCC, 5-year survival rates have not altered significantly in the last few years because of the lack of information on the causes of liver cancer development. In order to correctly forecast the progression and prognosis of HCC, useful biomarkers must be developed as soon as possible.
 Ferroptosis is a kind of iron-dependent cell death caused by unrestricted lipid peroxidation. Plenty of studies have been conducted to reveal its prognostic and therapeutic potential for cancer. Ribonucleotide reductase regulatory subunit M2 (RRM2) is elevated in liver cancer tissues and cells, which could protect against ferroptosis of liver cancer cells. The expression of a major target of ferroptosis Xc-complex was elevated in gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic cancer cells, and the regulators of ferroptosis play an indispensable role in estimating the survival of individuals with pancreatic cancer. Increased sensitivity to ferroptosis was identified to be correlated with higher scores of CD8+ T cells and immune checkpoints. Siramesine (lysosome-disrupting agent) and lapatinib (tyrosine kinase inhibitor) synergistically induced the ferroptosis of breast cancer cells. This process was inhibited by ferrastatin-1, a potent inhibitor of ferroptosis. Acetaminophen and erastin exert a synergistic effect in inducing ferroptosis in NSCLC.
 Ferroptosis is a novel type of cell death, which unlike autophagy and apoptosis, is an iron- and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent cell death. These cellular abnormalities are due to membrane lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress resulting in the loss of selective permeability of the plasma membrane. Compared to normal cells, cancer cells exhibit iron addiction, and in contrast to the abnormal iron metabolism in cancer, ferroptosis appears to be an antitumor process. In recent years, ferroptosis inducers are expected to be potential therapeutic options to induce cancer cell death, especially for malignancies resistant to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Increasing evidence indicates long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play a crucial regulatory role in the occurrence and development of cancer, as they can regulate the proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of cancer cells and metabolic reprogramming. A few reports have suggested lncRNAs are involved in ferroptosis. Ferroptosis-related lncRNAs have been reported to be associated with prognosis of pancreatic, colon, and liver cancers. It was also been reported in lung adenocarcinoma that ferroptosis-related lncRNAs affect patient prognosis. However, no corresponding studies have been reported in LUSC.
 Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent form of non-apoptotic cell death in the presence of oxidized polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), redox-active iron, and compromised lipid peroxide repair. Ferroptosis has been demonstrated in many diseases, such as cancer. It also plays a very vital role in digestive-system neoplasms such as gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, and, especially, HCC. Research shows that the p-Keap-NRF2 pathway is related to the ferroptosis of liver cancer cells, and the retinoblastoma (RB) protein plays a role in liver tumorigenesis and ferroptosis. Therefore, it is important to research ferroptosis-related biomarkers in the prognosis and treatment of HCC patients.
 Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent regulation of cell death mediated by the fatal accumulation of lipid peroxides. Artificial introduction of ferroptosis is considered a promising treatment for cancers resistant to traditional therapies. Ferroptosis has been reported to be a crucial process in human hepatocellular carcinoma, and CDGSH iron sulfur domain 1 (CISD1) and TP53 gene are known to be negative regulatory effective for ferroptosis. In addition, other genes such as retinoblastoma (Rb), nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2), and metallothionein (MT)-1G are reported to be associated with ferroptosis and protect liver cancer from induction of sorafenib (Louandre et al., 2015; Sun et al., 2016a, b). In 2021, researchers have revealed that ferroptosis process was aberrantly regulated in UCEC and an activator of ferroptosis can induce cell death in UCEC cells. However, the prognosis value of ferroptosis in the endometrial carcinoma still remains blank.
 Ferroptosis is an iron-independent form of cell death, the features and mechanisms are different from apoptosis, necrosis, and autophagy, which is characterized by the accumulation of lipid reactive oxygen species (ROS)6. The cystine/glutamate antiporter (system Xc−) and Glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4) in the typical glutathione pathway are two vital regulatory points of ferroptosis mechanisms. The system Xc− can regulate the exchange of intracellular glutamate and extracellular cystine. And GPX4, as a unique member of selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase distributed within mammals, plays a pivotal role in suppressing the generation of lipid ROS during ferroptotic cell death. Interestingly, cysteine impedes the biosynthesis of glutathione (GSH), which is a substrate of GPX4. Therefore, the interaction of the system Xc− and GPX4 induces the accumulation of ROS and ferroptosis. Sorafenib, as the standard first-line drug against advanced HCC, could inhibit system Xc− and induce the ferroptosis to exert its cytotoxic effects-12. Some previous studies have also reported the importance of ferroptosis for the treatment and prognosis of liver cancer-16, but the hub ferroptosis-related regulators and potential regulatory mechanism of ferroptosis during the occurrence and progression of HCC have not been investigated in detail.
 Ferroptosis was proposed by DIXON in. It is a new kind of programmed cell death that occurs after ferrous ions catalyze the formation of lipid peroxides. More and more evidences show that ferroptosis plays an important regulatory role in the occurrence and development of liver cancer, gastric cancer, and OC. It can not only instruct the research of antitumor drugs but can also be used for OC biomarker screening. More importantly, ferroptosis-mediated iron ions, amino acid, reactive oxygen species, and lipid metabolism are closely related to the tumor immune microenvironment. At present, there is no report about the prognostic evaluation of the immune-stromal score combined with ferroptosis in OC patients, which has potential research value. In this article, we downloaded samples of OC patients from the public data sets TCGA and GEO. After standardizing the data, we constructed a prediction model of the immune-stromal score combined with ferroptosis-related genes through the TCGA training set and verified it in the TCGA training set and two validation sets of GEO. In addition, we analyzed the immune matrix infiltration of OC, ferroptosis gene co-expression network, and potential pathways. Compared with previous studies, this study has better credibility and more comprehensive data.
 Ferroptosis, a relatively novel kind of cell death discovered recently, is involved in the pathophysiological process of many diseases including tumors, and it is different from apoptosis, necrosis, and autophagy due to a feature: being iron-dependent. It is caused by the accumulation of toxic lipid reactive oxygen species and the consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids. Polyunsaturated fatty acid is an important substrate in ferroptosis, and the C-H bond in the diallyl group of polyunsaturated fatty acid is easily attacked by oxidation. Compared with normal cells, cancer cells have the phenomenon of iron ion aggregation, and the regulation of ferroptosis from the perspective of iron homeostasis can effectively kill tumor cells. In recent years, for the treatment of advanced tumors, especially drug-resistant tumors, inducing the death of cancer cells through ferroptosis has become a very promising option. In addition to various induction molecules, many genes can also be markers of ferroptosis. At present, ferroptosis-related genes have shown good predictive performance in not a few tumors, including glioma, liver cancer, pancreatic cancer, gastroenteric tumor, urologic neoplasms, and thyroid cancer. However, the relationship between FRGs and prognosis and the outcome of patients with lung adenocarcinoma has not been reported in depth.
 Fibrosheath interaction protein 2 (FSIP2) is an important part of the fiber sheath, which constitutes the cytoskeletal structure of the main part of the sperm flagellum. The sheath is a scaffold of glycolytic enzymes and signaling proteins and plays an important role in vitality regulation. Although expression of FSIP2 is testis-specific, we have found that FSIP2 has a higher mutation frequency not only in male reproductive system tumors, such as testicular germ cell tumors, but also in Paget disease, liver cancer and other cancers. Despite a lack of studies on the relationship between FSIP2 and cancer, FSIP2 has been shown to not only an important part of AKAP4 but to also influence the function of PKA by docking to AKAP4. AKAP4 is highly expressed in a variety of cancers, and the regulatory subunit PKAI of PKA has also been shown to play important roles in promoting the proliferation and transformation of tumors and the generation of immunosuppressive microenvironments in the tumor microenvironment (TME).
 First, most previous studies screened out survival related lncRNAs based on the differential profile between cancer and noncancerous samples. The method could miss considerable survival information in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets including some important prognostic genes, 18 and lncRNAs as well. Second, most researchers did not perform preanalysis case selection whereas using an uncurated TCGA dataset without attention to sample characteristics can lead to false associations and undermine the application of the conclusions. The patients with the diagnosis of non-HCC liver cancer (cholangiocarcinoma), pathological metastasis, and postsurgical residual carcinoma, the history of neoadjuvant treatment, and too short survival time are considered to have distinct biological procedures and progression mechanisms, and should be excluded from the prognostic analysis. Third, most studies performed the analysis by mixing resectable and unresectable cancers. While resectable and unresectable HCCs are demonstrated to have entirely distinct prognosis and recommended with completely different treatment strategies and staging systems (the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC)/the American Joint Cancer Committee (AJCC) vs the Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP)/the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC)) thus should be analyzed distinctively for the development of prognostic models. Fourth, most published prognostic lncRNAs and the two established four-lncRNA signatures were identified without evaluating the relationship with other known promising HCC prognostic factors, such as the fibrosis and function levels of liver, and the performance status and serum parameters of patients all of which are considered vital features of HCC. Fifth, the candidate prognosis-related lncRNAs in most previous studies were screened out by uni/multivariate Cox analysis the accuracy of which is considered inferior to penalized Cox regression for small-sample and high-dimensional data.
 For patients with advanced LIHC, sorafenib has shown some survival benefit. Unfortunately, drug resistance is evident in many patients. Zhou et al reported that tumour-associated neutrophils could induce sorafenib resistance by recruiting macrophages and T-regulatory cells. Increased expression of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-1 (TREM-1) in tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) led to anti-programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) resistance in liver cancer. Given these data, we can realize that there is a marked correlation between TME and resistance in liver cancer, suggesting that the identification of predictive biomarkers related to TME for resistance in liver cancer will be very rewarding. However, gaps still exist in the current research regarding the prognostic significance and predictive potential related to the resistance of TME-related IRGs in a comprehensive, genome-wide profiling study of liver cancer.
 Gastric cancer (GC) is a heterogeneous gastrointestinal disease. According to global cancer statistics, new cases of GC and death pathology account for approximately 5. 7% and 8. 2% of all tumors. Among them, the incidence and mortality of gastric cancer in East Asia are prominent higher than other regions. In China, GC is a high-risk tumor disease which incidence is second only to lung cancer, and the mortality rate is lower than that of lung cancer and liver cancer. The majority of GC patients are lack of screening and have no obvious symptom at the early stage. In addition, high postoperative recurrence rate, chemotherapy toxicity, drug resistance, and poor prognosis significantly reduced survival ratio, especially in patients with advanced GC, whose five-year survival rate does not exceed 30%. Therefore, the development of cancer molecular biomarkers for diagnosis, prediction and treatment of GC is essential to improve quality of life and five-year survival rate of patients.
 Gastric cancer (GC) is the fifth most frequently diagnosed cancer and the third leading because of cancer deaths worldwide. Patients with early gastric cancer (EGC) usually have mild to no symptoms. Notably, the mild symptoms are similar to symptoms of gastritis and gastric ulcer. Surgery is an important treatment method for GC, 3 and there are many other treatment ways for GC, such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy. However, such treatments have not improved the 5-year survival rate of patients at advanced stages. Iron metabolism has a critical role in cancer as cancers generally have a high demand for Fe (III), a nutrient essential for a variety of biochemical processes. High-grade gliomas may be detectable with a radiotracer that targets Fe (III) transport. Additionally, many carcinogenesis-related changes are observed in iron metabolism in lung cancers with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Iron metabolism is also altered in hepatic tumors, particularly in liver cancer stem cells (CSC). However, the prognostic value of a gene signature associated with iron metabolism in GC has not been adequately explored.
 Genetic mutations are the hallmark of cancer, resulting in a change in cell fate. The process of cell mutation reflects what happens in the cell, which helps us to understand the biological process of these mutations. In general, tumor occurrence is thought to require two to eight so-called driver gene mutations, as well as numerous passenger gene mutations. Liver cancer is associated with a high degree of genomic instability and mutations of multiple genes. Metastasis and recurrence of HCC is a multistep and multifactorial process, including HCC oncogene activation, tumor suppressor gene inactivation, and mismatch repair gene mutation. Almost 30% of HCC, for example, harbor p mutation, which is associated with increased invasiveness, recurrence, and decreased survival rate. Mutations in the TERT promoter, ARID1A, CDKN2A, CTNNB1, AXIN1, and CCND1 are very common in HCC. However, despite the importance of these gene mutations, they are rarely applied in routine clinical practice due to high cost and limited availability.
 Genomic instability is an important hallmark of cancer, and facilitates the transformation of cancer. Some circulating markers that can predict the response to therapy and the survival of cancer patients have been demonstrated. As reported, miR423-5p can be used as a useful tool to predict response to sorafenib in HCC patients. Moreover, M Caraglia et al. demonstrated that the oxidative stress status and pERK activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells had high value in the prediction of the response to sorafenib + octreotide therapy in HCC patients. Therefore, understanding the genetic and epigenetic alterations, which are important to hepatocarcinogenesis, is an urgent problem to be solved for providing novel therapeutic targets for HCC. Recent epidemiological studies have reported that two-thirds of cancers are caused by mistakes in DNA replication. Recently, a multi-cohort retrospective analysis revealed that 138 DNA repair genes had prognostic significance in 16 cancer types. DNA repair capacity has a significant correlation with the lymphatic invasion in colorectal cancer patients, and DNA Repair promotes drug resistance in ovarian cancer by different hallmark gene sets. Therefore, DNA repair acts as an essential role in maintaining genome stability and cancer development. The deregulation of DNA repair-associated molecules could enhance the resistance of cancer cells to chemotherapy. Genes and proteins related to DNA repair have become therapeutic targets in prostate cancer and ovarian cancer. For the recent study, plenty of gene sets have been reported as a guidance in optimizing the treatment and play an important role as a biomarker in various cancers. Multigene prognostic signatures from tumor tissue of patients can predict the prognosis of cancer patients more accurately than a single gene. Especially, multigene prognostic signatures from messenger RNA (mRNA) could provide a better accuracy in cancer prognosis than the non-coding prognostic genes, which enable a better individualized treatment and more effective treatment. And, identifying the mRNAs and hallmark gene sets becomes a prerequisite for clinical application and treatment progress in cancer. However, there is a lack of research on the prognosis of liver cancer with combined markers of mRNAs. Therefore, it is still an urgent problem to find more efficient and sensitive gene sets of mRNAs biomarker for liver cancer.
 Globally, due to high-risk factors, such as smoking, radon, occupational exposure, traffic exhaust, and air pollution, lung cancer has become the leading because of cancer-related deaths, and it is also a major global health problem that is currently attracting widespread attention. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for 85% of lung cancer diagnoses. Approximately 50% of NSCLC patients are in stage IV when they are detected, and their 5-year survival rate is less than 10%2. In recent years, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) targeting programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) or its ligands (PD-L1) have been developed, which has caused significant progress in the treatment and overall management of locally advanced and advanced NSCLC3. The role of abnormal expression of tumor immune-related genomes in tumor immune evasion has become a new direction in tumor research. Abnormal immune genomes have an important impact on patients with ovarian cancer, gastric cancer, liver cancer, and kidney cancer. However, there is no relevant report on how an abnormal genome affects NSCLC. In addition, a variety of molecular markers are used to predict the prognosis of NSCLC, but they have not yet been widely recognized. Therefore, it is necessary to explore the genes related to the prognosis of NSCLC at the molecular level, and the construction of genetic models related to the prognosis of NSCLC has a strong clinical significance. Therefore, this study is based on the TCGA and ImmPort data sets to explore immune gene expression and immune cell differential analysis, and combine its clinicopathological characteristics and immune gene characteristics to construct a prognostic model of NSCLC, it is expected to have certain guiding significance for the treatment of NSCLC.
 Globally, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the second leading because of cancer-related deaths, thus necessitating development of more advanced treatment options and better treatment monitoring. However, due to the combination of adverse factors with a range of different biological and clinical behaviours and the increased resistance to anti-HCC drugs, existing targeted drugs have shown unsatisfactory efficacy. There is a lack of novel biomarkers for the evaluation of the clinical treatment of malignancies in HCC3. The lack of specific biomarkers for tumor stages or cancer subtypes represents a key gap during HCC therapy. Thus, it is necessary to develop an independent prognostic biomarker at the molecular level to determine liver cancer prognosis, especially considering the genomic and host factors that drive the progression. Investigation of factors can enhance our understanding of liver cancer biology, enable the development of enhanced screening strategies, and improve patient prognosis.
 Globally, Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents the predominant histological form of liver cancer (accounting for 75%-85% of all cases), which is a commonly diagnosed malignancy with an increasing incidence rate and ranked fourth in mortality among all cancers. In 2018, HCC leads to more than 781, 000 deaths and about 841, 000 newly diagnosed cases all over the world. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is one of the major causes of HCC, especially in western countries and Japan. According to a survey of 227, 808 participants, the anti-HCV-positive rate was 3. 0%, but more than 60% of the participants were not aware of their infection. While the introduction of the vaccine has reduced the prevalence of Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection with promise to decrease the incidence of HBV- associated HCC (HBV-HCC) in certain high-risk countries, there is no vaccine available for HCV infection. On the other hand, although great advances have been achieved for the investigation of HCC in the last decades, its underlying mechanisms of different etiologies vary dramatically, therefore extensive efforts are still needed to establish a better understanding of carcinogenesis and pathogenesis of HCV- associated HCC (HCV-HCC).
 Globally, liver cancer is known as the sixth leading cancer, and has the second-highest number of deaths. All over the world, more than 600, 000 people die of liver cancer each year, and nearly 850, 000 new cases occur. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 85-90% of all liver cancers and has received public attention. Despite rapid advances in new tests and treatments, the 5-year survival rate for HCC is still less than one in five. At present, surgery is still the main treatment for early liver cancer. However, a significant proportion of patients will have postoperative recurrence or distant metastasis. Recently, drugs such as sorafenib and regorafenib have been shown to be effective against advanced HCC. It is worth mentioning that patients with the same pathological type and clinical stage often have different outcomes after the same treatment, which is mainly due to the genetic heterogeneity of patients.
 Globally, liver cancer is the fourth most lethal cancer worldwide. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is rank as the major histological subtype (approx. 70-85% cases) of total liver cancer cases. The prognosis of advanced HCC is still not satisfactory and treatment options are limited. Integrative studies combining transcriptome and genomic analysis have confirmed that HCC has much heterogeneous at the histo-molecular level and clinical outcomes, and the molecular diversity of HCC is tightly associated with different aetiologies and distinct mechanisms of hepato-carcinogenesis. Give that only individually tailored molecular profiles and biomarkers could escape the patients from undergoing a potentially more harmful, aggressive chemical therapy or even leave them untreated, we should illustrate the natural history of HCC in individual patients by clearly understood their personal molecular characteristics. Therefore, there is an increasing interest in the molecular characterization of HCC allowing prognosticate overall patient survival.
 Globally, liver cancer is the second most deadly tumor, with a 5-year survival rate of 18%. Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common type of liver cancer, accounting for 90%. Current treatments such as surgical therapy, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy have significantly suppressed cancer proliferation and improved the survival of HCC patients. However, HCC displays a high degree of molecular heterogeneity among patients, at different locations within a patient, and even within a single tumor, which is closely correlated with the common occurrence of drug resistance and relapse after surgical resection and comprehensive treatment, consequently leading to a poor prognosis. It is urgent that more effective biomarkers be identified to provide individual treatment for HCC patients. The liver is the central organ for amino acid metabolism and the importance of amino acid metabolism in HCC has been noticed in recent years. Aberrant amino acid and protein metabolism provided active biosynthesis support for HCC. For example, branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism disorders are common in HCC, such as upregulation of isoleucine and downregulation of glutamate. Moreover, an increasing proportion of BCAAs restrains the proliferation of HepG2 liver tumor cells and helps to recover liver functions and prevent early recrudescence after surgical resection. A recent study revealed that BCAA reduction is an independent risk factor for sarcopenia in the course of HCC recurrence, worsening the prognosis of HCC patients. Research on amino acid metabolism is of great significance for the prevention and treatment of HCC. HCC tumor cell can active immune reaction and provide appropriate tumor microenvironment for cancer development. B and T cells played a vital role in the HCC tumor microenvironment. NK cell decreasing enrolled in HBV or HCV infection and promote the progression of liver cancer. However, whether amino acid metabolism-related genes are involved in immune regulation of HCC remains unclear. Moreover, effective amino acid metabolic genes to predict the overall survival (OS) of patients with HCC are still lacking.
 Globally, primary liver cancer is one of the most aggressive and difficult-to-treat malignant cancers, with a 5-year survival rate of less than 21%. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) comprises the most common type of primary liver cancer, accounting for 90% of all liver cancer cases. Besides, patients with HCC were often diagnosed in advanced stage owing to no apparent symptoms in early stage, probably leading to the poor survival. With the approval of sorafenib, lenvatinib, and other immunotherapy regimens for advanced HCC patients, the survival of metastatic or unresectable HCC patients has been improved in these years, but the therapeutic outcomes are still largely unsatisfactory. As is known, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is the most widely used serum biomarker for the HCC detection and treatment evaluation; however, it is not a robust and specific biomarker for HCC. In addition, vascular invasion (VI), as a critical risk factor, is the main herald of HCC recurrence though for HCC patients receiving surgical resection. Vascular invasion could be divided into two subtypes, macroscopic vascular invasion and microscopic vascular invasion, both were highly associated with tumor recurrence and poor performance status. However, the limitation in the detection of VI hinders its application as a robust biomarker for determining the clinical outcomes of HCC patients. Therefore, novel prognostic models and better prognostic molecular markers are urgently required to improve the HCC management and accurately predict clinical outcomes of HCC, especially for the AFP-negative HCC.
 Globally, the mortality rate of primary liver cancer ranks fourth among cancers. In many countries, its 5-year survival rate is less than 20%, and there have been no significant changes in survival rate over time. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common histological type accounting for the highest proportion (75-85%) of primary liver cancers. Recently, progression has been considered to be the most important reason for the poor prognosis of patients with HCC, and identifying the possible factors affecting the progression of HCC and exploring potential interventional therapies will improve the prognosis of HCC patients.
 Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that provides energy to the body. Changes in the glycolytic state may signify the presence of cancer. One study by Otto Warburg found that the glycolysis of tumor cells produced more lactic acid and less ATP, which resulted in tissue hypoxia, even in an environment with a high oxygen content. This phenomenon is known as the “Warburg effect”. Enhanced or abnormally activated glycolysis promoted tumor progression, which has been proven in breast cancer, colorectal cancer, liver cancer, etc.. In BCa, an increase of the Warburg effect has been proven to contribute to the aggressiveness of BCa tumor cells and accelerated the proliferation rate of BCa cells. Therefore, changes in glycolytic status may be an emerging marker of malignancy and a potential prognostic target for patients with BCa.
 Growing multi-omics studies have confirmed that genomic and epigenomic imbalances can affect the occurrence and development of liver cancer. TCGA project provides genomic, epigenomic, transcriptomics, and proteomics of 32 human cancers. A number of data portals such as UCSC Cancer Genomics Browser (https://genome-cancer. ucsc. edu/) have been developed. As a key regulator of genomic and epigenomic abnormalities, CNV is significantly correlated with individual genetic variations and human genetic diversities, which may change gene expression via modulating mRNA expression and affecting transcription. Several CNVs have been found to be closely related to liver cancer. For example, Jagged copy number amplification indicates poor prognosis in patients with liver cancer. In-depth research on CNV may help understand the mechanisms and probe susceptible targets for liver cancer. Studies have shown that epigenetic changes such as DNA methylation, contribute to the development of liver cancer. DNA methylation has been considered as a useful biomarker for early diagnosis of liver cancer. During carcinogenesis, abnormal DNA methylation is mainly manifested by focal methylation around the promoters of specific genes, and global methylation in non-promoter regions. Hypermethylation of the promoter region is a crucial process that can lead to epigenetic silencing of tumor suppressor genes. Moreover, abnormal DNA methylation of non-promoter elements is in association with intratumor heterogeneity.
 HCC is a common malignancy of liver cancer. Worldwide, there were 905667 new cases of HCC in 2020, accounting for 4. 7% of new cancer cases in the whole year. It is the fourth leading because of cancer death globally, and the annual mortality rate is as high as 8. 3%. The early symptoms of most patients are usually not evident, and they have reached the middle-to-late stage when coming to medical attention. Moreover, due to tumor size and location, recurrence, and metastasis, it is difficult for many patients to undergo surgery. The overall survival after treatment is still poor. In recent years, although sorafenib has somewhat improved survival in patients with advanced HCC, and Nivolumab and Pembrolizumab have shown positive results in recent immunotherapy clinical trials. However, HCC still has a dismal prognosis. Therefore, it is of great significance to explore the pathogenesis of HCC and identify new diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.
 HCC is the sixth most common cancer worldwide. Over 900, 000 new cases of HCC are confirmed each year, and approximately 800, 000 people die of HCC annually, making it the third most common because of cancer-related death. The morbidity and mortality rates of HCC are 2 to 3 times higher in men than in women in most areas. In China, the death rate of HCC is the highest among men over 60 years of age. The number of new cases of liver cancer diagnosed each year accounts for approximately 50% of all cases worldwide. The key determinants of liver cancer are chronic HBV infection, aflatoxin exposure or both. The development of surgical procedures has improved the survival rate of patients with early-phase HCC, but many patients already have advanced HCC at the diagnosis, resulting in a poor overall survival rate. Therefore, the identification of new, relevant biomarkers is urgently needed to improve the early diagnosis, prognostic assessment and treatment of HCC.
 Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), the most common pathological type of head and neck cancer, arises from the mucosal epithelium in the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx. HNSCC is the 6th most common cancer worldwide. The onset of HNSCC is increasing with approximately 600, 000 new cases are diagnosed each year. Oralcavity and larynx cancers are often connected with factors such as smoking and alcohol abuse, or both, whereas pharynx cancers are attributable to human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, especially HPV-16. Therefore, HNSCC is divided into 2 groups: HPV positive HNSCC with better prognosis and HPV negative with worse prognosis. Early-stage HNSCC is typically asymptomatic and most HNSCC is already locally advanced or advanced when diagnosed. As a result of no early effective detection test or screening method for HNSCC being available currently, a careful physical examination has far remained the primary diagnostic tool in early detection of HNSCC. At present, treatment approaches for HNSCC are mainly comprehensive modalities with surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapies, et al. However, the overall responses rates of patients with HNSCC to targeted therapeutic drugs, such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors (cetuximab) and programmed cell death protein 1 inhibitors (pembrolizumab and nivolumab), were moderate. Thus, finding a novel prognostic biomarker for the treatment of HNSCC is a major goal. The fatty acid metabolism (FAM) occupies a key role in the entire lipid metabolism, which is known to impact tumorigenesis, tumor progression and treatment resistance via enhancing lipid synthesis, storage and catabolism. The biosynthesis of fatty acids (FAs) is activated in cancer cells to fulfill lipid synthesis of membranes and signaling molecules, and energy storage. Compared with glucose oxidation, fatty acid (FA) oxidation is more likely to be utilized by tumor cells due to higher energy production. Increased FA oxidation confers survival advantages for tumors not only to resist chemotherapeutic and radiation treatments but also to alleviate cellular stresses involved in the metastatic cascade. In addition, FAM could have an impact on cellular phenotype and function of tumor-infiltrating immune cells in tumor microenvironments, which may be associated with immunosuppression. Deregulating or blocking FAs levels through the FAM-related pathway in cancer might inhibit tumor cell growth and therefore that identifying the targets to regulate FAM is essential. Several studies have shown that FAM was closely related to the oncogenesis and progression of breast cancer, colorectal cancer and liver cancer. A previous study has demonstrated that the FA synthase inhibitor orlistat could reduce the growth and metastasis of orthotopic tongue oral squamous cell carcinomas. Su et al. found that the overexpression of long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, a type of FA oxidation-related enzyme, had a protective effect on OS in advanced HNSCC. To date, the role of FAM in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma has remained elusive.
 Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is prevalent in China and the chronic HBV infection rate in the adult population of this region is between 5% and 10%. HBV infection is a major because of hepatocarcinogenesis and increase the risk of death from HBV-related cirrhosis and liver cancer. According to global cancer statistics, more than half of new liver cancer cases and deaths were from China, in 2012 9. The latest cancer statistics data from China estimated that there will be ~466, 100 newly diagnosed liver cancer cases, and ~ 422, 100 will die from liver cancer in 2015 10. Liver cancer has become the third major factor of cancer-related death, and with a low 5-year survival rate. The histologic type of most liver cancer cases are hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 12.
 Hepatocellular cancer (HCC) is the digestive system's most common malignancy, accounting for 75-85% of early-stage liver cancers. Its high mortality rate has become one of the main reasons for cancer-related deaths worldwide. Despite advancements in treatment strategies for this type of cancer, the diagnosis of HCC patients is unsatisfactory and typically occurs in the advanced stages. Furthermore, due to the high prevalence of metastasis and recurrence after surgery as well as resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, much of the most recent researches focused on improving the prognosis of HCC patients. Therefore, there is an urgent need to understand better the molecular mechanism regulating HCC development. Leonardo Salmena et al. proposed the "competing endogenous RNA" (ceRNA) hypothesis in. According to this hypothesis, ceRNAs are partial transcription products that create a vast regulatory network throughout transcriptome, including miRNA, long non-coding RNA, pseudogenic RNA, and circular RNA. These transcripts modulate each other by competing for miRNAs at the post-transcriptional level and contribute a major part to pathological situations such as cancer. Circular RNA (circRNA) is a particular kind of endogenous non-coding RNA derived from the exonic and intronic region of a gene with a continuous and covalently closed circular structure that lacks the 5'-cap and 3'poly-A tail. So, it is more resistant to degradation by exonucleases and RNases, giving it a better stability than linear RNAs. CircRNAs are physiologic and tissue-specific, making them ideal diagnostic and potential prognostic biomarkers in tissues, serum, and urine-8.
 Hepatocellular cancer (HCC) is the sixth most common because of malignant tumors. In 2020, there will be 900, 000 new cases of stem cell cancer worldwide, making HCC the third leading because of tumor-related death worldwide. HCC accounts for nearly 90% of primary liver cancers. Because the initial symptoms of HCC are not apparent, many patients are diagnosed with advanced liver cancer, hampering the success of treatment. In recent years, chemoradiotherapy for HCC has benefited patients with progressive disease; however, some patients remain with poor outcomes. Therefore, predicting the outcome of HCC patients by gene sequencing technology can assist clinicians in diagnosis and treatment strategies.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for > 90% of all primary liver cancers, making it the most common liver malignancy and is second only to pancreatic cancer in terms of lethality with only 18% 5-year survival. Globally, HCC is fourth most lethal cancer and sixth most common. Majority of patients with HCC have underlying cirrhosis from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), alcohol abuse and viral hepatitis. NAFLD related HCC has increasing incidence in Western countries, with underlying pathophysiology of insulin resistance, oxidative stress and inflammation playing an important role in cancer initiation and progression.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 75 to 85% of primary liver cancer, and is the sixth most common and fourth fatal malignancy globally, with 1- and 3-year survival rates of 20 and 5%, respectively, and a median survival of 8 months. About two-thirds of patients with HCC are frequently diagnosed at advanced stages, being characterized by an aggressive clinical course. Although multiple clinical strategies can be applied for HCC treatment, including surgical resection, liver transplantation, radiofrequency ablation, and chemotherapy, the efficacy is limited by high recurrence rate. Currently, the tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) system is still the gold standard for risk stratification of HCC patients. However, the recurrence and survival for HCC patients vary widely within each stage grouping.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 75%~85% of primary liver cancer cases, ranking sixth among the most common cancers in the world and fourth in terms of cancer-related deaths. However, traditional treatment is not ideal for patients with advanced HCC. As an inflammation-related tumor, HCC features an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) that can promote immune tolerance through various mechanisms. There have been a series of advances in immunotherapy, and immunotherapy that activates the tumor-specific immune response brings new hope for the treatment of HCC. However, there are still some problems, such as uncertain curative effects, low objective response rates (ORRs), many adverse reactions, and even drug resistance after initial patient response. Therefore, how to use molecular typing to improve the immune microenvironment, modify the immune response of patients, and guide the choice of immunotherapy or combination therapy scheme to effectively improve the efficacy of immunotherapy is an urgent problem to be solved and a future direction for the development of accurate treatments for HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 75%-80% of all cases of liver cancer. The 5-year overall survival (OS) of HCC patients is 3%-5% across all countries. Patients with stage A HCC (BCLC) have a 5-year OS rate of 50%-75%, with different comorbidities. Increasing evidence suggests that altered or dysregulated DNA methylation may contribute to HCC. DNA methylation plays an important role in regulation of gene expression, development of normal cells and maintenance of tissue stability. Human DNA methylation occurs only at CpG islands, most of which are located in the promoter and the first exon. Methylation of the promoter inhibits gene expression, and abnormal methylation is associated with many human diseases, including cancer. Genomic methylation can be analyzed in a high-throughput manner, which may facilitate disease diagnosis, prevention and treatment.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 75-85% of all primary liver cancer cases and is the third leading because of cancer-related death worldwide. In 2020, there are 910, 000 new cases of liver cancer worldwide, of which 45% are from China. Surgical resection is still the best choice for HCC treatment, but most patients are diagnosed with advanced stage and lose the opportunity for surgery. The application of targeted therapy and immunotherapy has brought light to some patients with advanced HCC, but the overall prognosis has not improved significantly. Therefore, it is of great significance to further reveal the precise molecular mechanism of the occurrence and development of HCC and carry out new target discovery and intervention research of anti-cancer drugs to improve the curative effect and prognosis of patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 75-85% of all primary liver cancers. It is one of the most common malignant solid tumors in the world and the fourth leading because of cancer-related deaths, with a 5-year survival rate of less than 20%. Although a small number of early-stage liver cancers can be treated by liver resection or liver transplantation, most liver cancer patients are in the middle to advanced stages of the disease at the time of diagnosis and often cannot be treated despite careful monitoring. Therefore, it is crucial to develop reliable prognostic tools that can predict clinical outcomes and assist in the decision-making process regarding observations, surgery, medications, and conservative treatments.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 75-85% of primary liver cancers and is the second leading because of cancer death, with 5-year survival rates of only 4-17%. This disease is highly malignant and progresses rapidly, resulting in almost one million deaths each year. Surgical resection of HCC followed by chemotherapy is an ideal curative treatment strategy, but it is limited by advanced stage and metastasized tumor cells. While several new therapeutic agents, including checkpoint or tyrosine kinase inhibitors, have been approved by the FDA for patients who cannot undergo surgery or transplantation, their efficacy is unsatisfactory, and HCC patients still have an average survival of only 6 months. Liver cancer stem cells (LCSCs) are closely associated with the poor prognosis of HCC because they have more robust metastatic and tumorigenic properties than non-LCSCs. Thus, eliminating LCSCs or reducing tumor size is critical to improving HCC treatment efficacy. There is an urgent need to explore the molecular biological features of LCSCs.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 85% of liver cancers, and the disease burden of HCC is increasing globally. Although progress on treatment strategies for HCC has been made, the overall 5-year survival rate for HCC patients remains less than 20%. Nowadays, the research of molecular mechanism based on bioinformatics analysis has become one of the most important tools for cancer research. Therefore, it is of great significance to search for molecular markers for early diagnosis, survival prediction and recurrence monitoring of HCC, which can improve patients' stratification and optimize medical intervention. The low rate of early diagnosis and high rate of metastasis and recurrence have considerable impact on the prognosis of HCC patients, which are mainly related to the invasiveness and high proliferative activity of tumor cells. However, the mechanism of tumor progression has not been completely realized.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for 90% of primary liver cancer, which is one of the most common malignant tumors known and represents the second leading because of cancer-caused deaths worldwide. HCC is also the fourth most common cancer in China. The main causes of HCC are chronic infection from the hepatitis virus, alcoholism, exposure to aflatoxin, smoking and diabetes. The early diagnosis rate of HCC is relatively low, and most patients are diagnosed as advanced diseases. Although early diagnosis, imaging technology, surgical treatment, chemotherapy, molecular targeted therapy and other aspects of HCC have made great progress in recent years, the overall 5-year survival rate is still unsatisfactorily low. Classic prognostic factors such as clinical lymph node metastasis (cTNM) stage and pathological stage (pTNM) are not fully prognostic in some patients. Guidelines for prognostic assessment have been continuously modified to improve their accuracy and reduce the complexity of their daily clinical application. Therefore, new effective and reliable prognosis and prediction biomarkers are needed to improve risk prediction and provide better information for guiding personalized treatment. Prognostic modelling is a useful tool in cancer management because it enables timely intervention in high-risk patients while avoiding unnecessary treatment in low-risk patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for approximately 70% to 85% of primary liver cancers and is the second leading because of death from cancer in men worldwide. Risk factors for HCC include chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus infection, consumption of food contaminated with aflatoxin B, and alcoholism. 4-6 Despite the progress in diagnosis and treatment, including hepatic resection, liver transplantation, local ablation, and molecular-targeted therapies, the prognosis of HCC patients remains poor due to difficulties in early diagnosis and the high incidence of tumor recurrence and metastasis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for approximately 80% of liver cancers and is the fourth leading because of cancer-related death worldwide. Unfortunately, although surgery may effect a radical cure, as many as 70% of HCC patients would have tumor recurrence after surgery at 5 years. With an estimated survival time of approximately 1 year, sorafenib and lenvatinib remained the only effective systemic therapies for frontline therapy until immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-based combination therapy showed desirable efficacy, but clinically available biomarkers to predict response to systemic therapies are still needed. Therefore, it is urgent to further explore the underlying mechanisms of cancer development and detect novel prognostic and therapeutic targets of HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for more than 80% of primary liver cancers and ranks as the third leading because of cancer-related mortality worldwide. In China, owing to the high rate of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, HCC accounts for nearly 55% of all global HCC cases. The prognosis and survival of HCC patients remain disappointing because of the high rate of recurrence and metastasis. Although many molecular biomarkers involved in HCC have been identified, the mechanism behinds its development remains unclear. There have been continuous efforts to discover HCC-associated autoantibody biomarkers for use as early diagnostic biomarkers, and several tumor-associated autoantibodies were recently suggested as early predictors of HCC before diagnosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for the majority of primary liver cancers. Because of hepatitis B or C virus (HBV or HCV) infection or alcohol abuse, the most of HCC patients have a background of liver disease. The prognosis of HCC is very poor. M6A has been shown a reversible modification in messenger RNA (mRNA) and can regulate processing, translation and decay of mRNA. Dysregulation of mA genes have an effect on oncogene expression, indicating the mA and tumorigenesis are related. Emerging evidence suggests that mA modification is associated with the tumor proliferation, differentiation, invasion and metastasis in malignant tumors. We aimed to basing on the mA genes to establish a prognostic model of HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) comprises the vast majority of primary liver cancers; it is the sixth most prevalent cancer and third most frequent because of cancer-associated deaths worldwide. The incidence of HCC has risen gradually, from 1. 51 cases per 100, 000 in 2011 to 6. 20 cases per 100, 000 worldwide in 2014, and this increase is anticipated to continue into the future. According to the 2018 cancer statistics, there are 841, 000 new cases of HCC worldwide each year, and about 55% of HCC patients are from China. Notably, approximately 83% of HCC cases arise in non-Western countries, with China accounting for slightly more than 50% of all new diagnoses in. There are numerous established HCC risk factors, of which chronic hepatitis infection, in particular hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, and subsequent liver fibrosis and cirrhosis are the most critical. It is estimated that approximately 2 billion people have been infected with HBV worldwide. Generally, HBV contributes to the development of HCC through integration of HBV DNA into the host genome, which induces both genomic instability and direct insertional mutagenesis of diverse cancer-related genes. Globally, approximately 240 million people are chronically infected with HBV, and approximately 25% of those affected eventually develop HCC. Moreover, approximately 60% of HCC cases in Africa and Asia are associated with HBV infection. Despite its prevalence, the mechanism for HBV-positive HCC is still poorly understood. A better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying HBV-positive HCC carcinogenesis would help in the development of more effective molecular-targeted interventions for the primary prevention and treatment of HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) contributes to around 90% of primary liver cancers and is associated with cirrhosis linked to hepatitis B and C infection. In the US, it is one of the fastest growing causes of death from cancer. Thus, the expansion of knowledge on HCC disease aetiology is important. Identifying patient subgroups that stratify by survival due to biological differences will be a step forward towards this goal. This information could in future enable precision medicine whereby patients, when profiled using omics technologies, are stratified into subgroups and have their treatments tailored accordingly. This approach to patient management could improve overall survival in HCC. Moreover, the biological information gained through the identification of prognostic subgroups could facilitate the discovery of new biomarkers and targets for therapies.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) contributes to more than 90% of all cases of liver cancer, and HCC ranks 2nd in cancer-related deaths worldwide. Metabolic reprogramming has been reported to have a significant effect on the prognosis of HCC. However, there is no definitive understanding of the relationship between TAMs and metabolic reprogramming in HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) generally followed cirrhosis given rise by metabolic disorder, chronic ethanol intake, and hepatitis virus infection. The leading metabolic risk factor for HCC is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which is mainly related to obesity and type 2 diabetes. Currently, it is acknowledged that hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) were the main infectious etiologies for cirrhosis and HCC. It is worth mentioning that viral hepatitis could skip cirrhosis and induced HCC directly and independently. Besides the aforementioned factors, the intake of Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) was also demonstrated to be related to HCC. People in specific regions entailing relatively high exposure to Aflatoxin B1 were accompanied by high incidence and mortality of HCC. More than 8 million new cases of liver cancer occurred worldwide each year, which directly or indirectly gave rise to more than 4 million deaths worldwide each year. Asia has the highest incidence of liver cancer in the world, particularly in China, which accounts for almost half the global cases. At the same time, Asia is the high-incidence area of HBV and HCV. The main treatment methods of liver cancer mainly include surgical resection, transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE), ablation, liver transplantation, radiotherapy, and so forth. Sorafenib, the multi-kinase inhibitor, is one of first-line drugs approved for the treatment of advanced HCC. Although it can improve survival, the long-term survival of HCC patients is limited due to the drug resistance. Hence, the discovery of new hub genes for developing HCC-targeted drugs and specific genes that improve and maintain drug susceptibility might be hopeful for advanced-stage HCC patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has a high mortality rate worldwide and accounts for up to 90% of liver cancers. HCC is characterized by a poor prognosis and high aggressivity and is difficult to diagnose early. It is widely known that non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, hepatitis C virus, and alcohol abuse are strongly related to the occurrence of HCC. Liver biopsy is the most reliable method for diagnosing HCC; however, due to its invasiveness, this method is not suitable for large-scale liver cancer screening. Additionally, the underlying mechanisms of HCC are still poorly understood. Therefore, new biomarkers must be identified to enable the early diagnosis and an improved understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms of HCC to reduce its mortality rate.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignant tumor in China, which ranks the third in morbidity and the second in mortality. Its morbidity is usually associated with specific risk factors, including infections with HBV and HCV, high alcohol intake, obesity and consumption of aflatoxin-containing food. With the development of the second-generation sequencing techniques increasing research on HCC has been conducted on the molecular level. In 2014, Totoki et al. 2 have reported the whole-genome sequencing of 608 HCC patients from Asia and Europe. In 2015, Schulze et al. 3 have reported the whole-genome sequencing of 243 HCC patients from Europe and America. In 2016, Fujimoto et al. 4 have reported the whole-genome sequencing of 300 HCC patients from Japan. The molecular blueprint of HCC including somatic mutation, mRNA expression, methylation and miRNA regulation has been gradually outlined, which could be used for the diagnosis, treatment, and prediction of recurrence and survival of liver cancer patients. In 2017, TCGA working group has systematically analyzed the sequencing results of the whole exome of more than 360 HCC patients in TCGA database and compared these data with other published HCC sequencing samples. Various statistical methods, related classification and clustering algorithms of machine learning have been used. TERT, TP53, CTNNB1, AXIN1, ARID1A, ARID2, RB1, ALB, APOB, PTEN, CDKN2A, DOCK26-15 and other somatic cells with significantly mutant genes (SMGs) and driver mutation have been identified. These findings have been rapidly applied as potential therapeutic targets and prognostic indicators in clinical practice.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a dismal health concern and the sixth common cancer in the world. The incidence of HCC is continuously rising worldwide. Despite the consistent advances in treatment and diagnosis, the five-year survival rate of liver cancer remains very low, approximately 30. 5% based on the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database. Although the therapeutic approaches of liver cancer have been improved remarkably due to the development of chemotherapeutic regimes and immune-related therapies, the most promising option to cure patients with this disease still relies on surgical resection. However, most patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage that is not suitable for curative approaches. Nearly 54% of patients experienced recurrence or distal metastasis. Thus, we decided to find a signature to predict the recurrence outcomes of HCC, which has the potential to guide the treatment options and improve patient survival outcomes.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly aggressive malignant disease. It is the fastest-growing because of cancer-related death worldwide. In addition, HCC is the most common form of primary liver cancer, accounting for 85-90% of all cases. The most common risk factors associated with HCC include hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), aflatoxin exposure and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. However, the molecular pathogenesis of HCC is still not clear. Early-stage HCC presents with nonspecific manifestations. Therefore, diagnosing early-stage HCC is challenging. Approximately 60% of the patients experience recurrence or distant metastasis after surgery. Early-stage HCC is curable by resection, liver transplantation or ablation. However, most patients are diagnosed late with unresectable disease. Recent years have seen the advent of the role of immune checkpoint inhibitors has been investigated and the PD-L1 inhibitor atezolizumab in combination with bevacizumab has reported unprecedented results in HCC patients. Therefore, there is an urgent need to investigate the molecular pathogenesis and regulatory network of HCC to discover therapeutic targets and develop effective drugs. Further, there is a need to establish a model for predicting HCC prognosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly malignant tumor with high mortality and brings a great burden to social economy. Chronic virus infection, commonly hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV), and long-term alcohol consumption are the major etiology of HCC development. Thanks for the development of vaccine and anti-virus medication treatment, the morbidity of virus-related HCC shows a decreasing tendency. Although viral hepatitis infection is strongly responsible for liver cancer progression, various non-viral risk factors play important roles in promoting HCC development. The epidemiological studies show that the incidence of HCC has failed to decline over the past decades partly owing to the increasing of HCC without virus infection. Thus, there is an unmet need to understand the underlying molecular mechanism of non-viral HCC. Due to the high heterogeneity and molecular diversities, the prognosis of non-viral HCC patients is widely divergent. Therefore, an effective and accurate model to predict the prognosis of non-viral HCC individually is important and helpful to inform future clinical-decision making.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a lethal malignancy and accounts for approximately 85% to 90% of primary liver cancers. Although targeted therapy and immunotherapy have emerged as potential therapies, curative therapies for HCC remain limited. Moreover, high post-operative recurrence rates and rare complete cures make it difficult for achieving long term survival. A study on natural history of HCC indicated that patients with advanced stage had a survival of only 3. 4 months if untreated. HCC develops following a step-wise manner with abundant genetic and epigenetic molecular alterations. Therefore, it is crucial to achieve a better understanding of the underlying molecular mechanism that drives HCC occurrence and development. Exploring prediction model based on the factors that drive HCC can be useful for individualized therapy option and prognosis prediction for HCC patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a malignant tumor that has one of the highest morbidity and mortality rates, and its tumorigenesis is closely related to HBV and HCV infection. There were estimated 782, 500 hepatic carcinoma cases and 745, 500 related deaths globally in 2012, according to Torre et al. Moreover, estimated 70-90% of primary liver cancers are HCC. Despite advances in chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery, the low 5-year survival and quality of life observed in HCC patients remain intractable issues. Many etiological factors, such as alcohol consumption and aflatoxin B1 exposure, are widely accepted to facilitate HCC occurrence; however, the precise molecular mechanisms remain unknown. Thus, there is an urgent need for a reliable biomarker that can be used to predict HCC progression and prognosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a predominant histological form of liver cancer with dismal long-term prognosis and high recurrence rate. Surgical resection may significantly benefit early-stage patients. However, several HCC patients are first diagnosed at advanced stages and present local metastasis wherein the surgical excision treatment is unsuitable. The median survival for patients with advanced HCC is less than a year. Given the grim status of HCC, novel and effective treatment strategies are required. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB)-based immunotherapy has brought a paradigm shift in cancer treatment. Recent data from phase I/II clinical trial demonstrate that the combined administration of Opdivo (programmed death 1 inhibitor) and Yervoy (cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 inhibitor) is promising for the treatment of HCC patients. However, only a subset of patients responds favorably to ICB therapy due to the heterogeneity and complex molecular pathogenesis underlying HCC. Cancer cells can suppress the function of immune effector cells changing the immune molecular expression and immune cell aggregation in the intratumoral microenvironment, therapy resulting in immune escape. Furthermore, the engulfment of the tumor in this intratumor immune landscape can change its response to adjuvant therapy and impact the progression of malignancy. Understanding the regulatory machinery of HCC immunology and identifying immune-related gene signatures are warranted for predicting the therapeutic sensitivity to different drugs.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a primary liver cancer derived from hepatocytes, accounting for 85~90% of all primary liver cancers. It is the fifth most common cancer in men and the seventh most common cancer in women worldwide; it is estimated that there are about 782, 000 new cases every year, causing 600, 000 deaths every year. Its high mortality and short survival time lead to a serious global health burden. The occurrence of HCC is a complex process of interaction between genetic and environmental factors, and its mechanism has not been fully elucidated. Important risk factors include environmental toxins such as chronic viral hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, and aflatoxin, lifestyle factors such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), drinking, smoking, and diet. Various HCC related risk factors could cause DNA damage. If the damaged DNA was not repaired in time and correctly, it could lead to gene mutation and genomic instability, which is gradually considered to be the common feature of human HCC. The disorder of the DNA damage repair process was related to the susceptibility to liver cancer, and this process was often enhanced in HCC cells, resulting in the unsatisfactory effect of anticancer treatment against HCC cells.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a serious disease with high morbidity and mortality, annually causing more than 500, 000 deaths worldwide. HCC usually evolves from chronic liver inflammation, 80% of which is caused by viral hepatitis C or B. In the past decade, the prevalence and mortality of HCC have been decreasing in East Asia and other areas that traditionally report high incidence rates, while increasing in Europe and the United States. Although many researchers have delved into the biological and environmental mechanisms underlying liver cancer occurrence and progression, limited clinical options are currently available to delay or prolong tumor progression. Further, the high metastasis and recurrence rates of HCC pose significant challenges for diagnosis and treatment. Investigating the potential molecular mechanisms and effective prognostic signatures of HCC is thus urgently needed.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a serious malignant disease with a high recurrence rate. Although many patients have been diagnosed and treated early in the disease. The prognosis is even less optimistic for patients who have entered the middle and advanced stages. If cancer spreads to the surrounding lymph nodes, the 5-year survival rate for the patient is only 11%. When cancer spreads to other organs, the 5-year survival rate is only 3%. At present, drugs that inhibit angiogenesis dominate. However, immunotherapy is expected to become one of the most effective therapy for liver cancer within 5 years. However, immunotherapy has the drawbacks of metastasis, recurrence, and the use of a small number of patients. Therefore, new therapies closely related to treatment must be developed.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a tumor of the digestive system with high malignancy, high rate of metastasis and recurrence, and poor prognosis. It is the most common pathological type of primary liver cancer, the fifth most common malignant tumor worldwide, and the second leading because of cancer-related deaths. Asia and Africa exhibit a high incidence of HCC, which has gradually increased over recent years. Hepatitis virus infection, alcohol, aflatoxin, metabolic syndrome, and other risk factors are closely related to the occurrence of HCC. Surgical resection and liver transplantation of early HCC patients can effectively control tumor development and prolong survival time. However, HCC has an insidious onset and rapid progression. Many patients have reached the mid-to-late stages when they are diagnosed, and the chances of surgical resection are limited. Interventional therapy, local ablation, radiotherapy, targeted therapy, and other measures have limited satisfactory outcomes, and the poor prognosis of HCC remains. Therefore, exploring potential molecular mechanisms and cell signaling pathways underlying the pathogenesis of HCC, studying markers with prognostic value, and constructing a prognostic signature will improve clinical decision-making, benefiting patients and extending the prognostic survival time.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is considered to be the most common liver cancer in the world, ranking fifth in men and seventh in women. The development of liver cancer is highly correlated with the infection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and/or hepatitis C virus (HCV). Surgical resection is the main treatment for most cases of liver cancer (HCC) and only 30 to 40% of patients with liver cancer can be treated after diagnosis by surgical resection. Therefore, it is important to find an effective and reliable diagnosis of liver cancer that can significantly improve the diagnosis of liver cancer patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is identified as the most frequently occurring primary liver cancer as well as one of the leading reasons for cancer-related death on a global scale. It is known that cirrhosis of the liver is a crucial risk factor for the development of HCC, and this group of patients thus need surveillance for early detection, which is best obtained by measuring alpha-fetoprotein levels and regular ultrasound of the liver. The first-line agents for treatment of advanced HCC include sorafenib, combined use of atezolizumab and bevacizumab, and lenvatinib, and adoptive cell transfer therapy, oncolytic viruses, in addition to locoregional therapies also have a potential benefit. Of note, the efficacy of optimal treatment for HCC has been limited by heterogeneity of this malignancy, which has constrained the advancement in personalized therapy.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is most common types of primary liver cancer. Due to the complex etiology of HCC and diverse molecular subtypes detected in individuals, it is pretty hard to make early diagnosis. In consequence, advanced HCC is the main diagnosis of patients and their five-year survival rate is only 10. 1%. Thus, there are urgent needs to exploit more effective biomarkers and therapeutic targets for HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most aggressive cancers with a poor prognosis. Recently, there is emerging evidence to reveal the presence of liver cancer stem cells (CSCs) within liver cancer [,,]. The progression of HCC involves the gradual loss of differentiated phenotypes and acquisition of stemness properties. Stemness of cancer cells is largely responsible for tumor recurrence, metastasis, and chemoresistance, which is the major hurdles for tumor treatment, but finding effective measures to eradicate CSCs remains a major challenge. Determining the metabolic features of CSCs might therefore discover clinical targets and provide opportunities for more effective therapies.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common heterogeneous malignancies, which is the sixth most widespread neoplasm and the fourth leading because of cancer death. The incidence and mortality of liver cancer are gradually increasing, and HCC is accounting for ~ 90% of primary liver cancers. Concerning the complex pathogenesis of HCC, some reports about the etiology and development of HCC have speculated that it is associated with cirrhosis, viral hepatitis, specific chemical carcinogens, and abnormal regulation of hormones. However, early diagnosis and treatment of HCC remain an issue, especially in the low-level medical developing countries. Although the diagnostic and therapeutic techniques for HCC are developing rapidly, the prognosis of HCC is very poor, approximately 70% of HCC relapse within 5 years after receiving resection or ablation. Currently, due to the not obvious early clinical symptoms, most of the patients were firstly diagnosed in the middle or late stages so that they miss the optional treatment period. Consequently, it needs more effort to identify early diagnostic biomarkers of HCC, and their utilization is beneficial for timely and effective treatment for patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies. With a 5-year survival rate of 18%, HCC is the second most lethal tumour after pancreatic cancer and the fourth leading because of cancer-related mortality worldwide. HCC is the main type of primary liver cancer, and its increasing mortality rate is receiving growing concern. However, conventional treatments such as radiotherapy and chemotherapy do not significantly prolong overall survival (OS) in HCC patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent primary cancers worldwide and ranks third in all cancer-related mortality. Numerous therapeutic strategies for treating liver cancer have been developed, including surgical resection, radiofrequency ablation, liver transplantation, and targeted therapy. Despite the fact that great progress has been made in clinical treatment, the survival rates of liver cancer patients within 5 years are still as low as 18% because of the highly malignant tumors, the high recurrence rate, and drug resistance. Several factors have been identified to affect and predict HCC prognosis, such as microRNAs and blood groups. However, these factors still could not predict the prognosis accurately. Therefore, it is paramount to exploring how specific cellular tumor progression pathways contribute to HCC prognostic stratification for cancer treatment development.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the 5th malignant tumor 1 and 3rd fatal malignant tumor in the world. There are 500, 000 new liver cancer cases worldwide due to hepatitis B, hepatitis C and alcoholic liver disease. The mechanisms of the development and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are complicated and regulated genetically and epigenetically. Although a huge progress has been made on the research of HCC, there is only an elemental understanding of its molecular pathogenesis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the dominant histologic type of primary liver cancer, with a high incidence and mortality rate. Although there are various therapeutic modalities for HCC, including surgical resection, chemotherapy, radiofrequency ablation and liver transplantation, its recurrence rate and prognosis remains unsatisfactory. Recently, immunotherapy has made great progress as a new treatment method in HCC. However, to date, this only benefited a subset of patients. The insufficient understanding of the tumor immunological microenvironment (TIME) may be the main reason for disappointing results. At the individual level, HCC has significant TIME heterogeneity, and the comprehensive understanding of the heterogeneity was crucial for clinical diagnosis, personalized treatment and prognosis prediction in HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the dominant primary liver cancer, and accounts for 90% of patients with liver cancer. There are approximately 850, 000 new liver cancer cases and 800, 000 deaths worldwide each year. For early HCC, surgical resection and liver transplantation are recommended treatments. However, due to the difficulty in early diagnosis, a majority of patients are ineligible to surgical resection upon diagnosis. Multikinase inhibitors sorafenib and lenvatinib are the standard therapies for patients with advanced HCC, but with limited clinical efficacy. Therefore, novel biomarkers are necessary for timey diagnosis and effective treatment in HCC patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer and the second most lethal cancer globally. Currently, the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) classifications and American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system (TNM) remain two systems for routine prognostication and treatment allocation among patients with HCC. However, wide variation in clinicopathologic outcomes has been reported among HCC patients with the same tumor stage and received similar treatment regimens. Consequently, a new classification for HCC is needed for more precise prediction of long-term survival, thus enabling a more individualized therapeutic schemes with improved survival for HCC patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fourth leading because of cancer-related death worldwide, accounting for 90% of primary liver cancer. Approximately 383000 individuals die from liver cancer every year in China, accounting for 51% of liver cancer deaths worldwide. Surgical resection is the cornerstone of treatment for HCC patients with early stages. However, most patients with HCC are diagnosed at an advanced stage, which prevents surgical management. Chemotherapy is the primary treatment for patients with advanced HCC. Nevertheless, drug resistance has become more and more prominent in HCC. Therefore, it is essential to understand the mechanism of pathology and drug resistance in HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fourth most common because of cancer-related mortality worldwide . It has been reported that most liver cancers are closely related to hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and liver cirrhosis. Studies have shown that the morbidity and mortality associated with HCC continuing to increasing year on year and has become a major global public health problem. Clinical outcomes for HCC patients are difficult to predict based on classical histological classifications due to tumor heterogeneity. There is an urgent need to establish efficient and accurate risk assessment models to assess the prognosis in HCC patients to improve diagnosis and treatment.
 Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is the fourth most common because of death of tumor and the seventh most common malignant tumor in. Due to the hepatitis related virus being endemic, the majority of new patients of HCC occur in China annually. Most of HCC patients usually lost the opportunity of surgical treatment for the lack of specific symptoms. The molecular mechanisms of liver cancer initiation and progression are still unclear, which make it hard to attain effective treatment. In addition, problems remain in the process of treatment and diagnosis of liver cancer, due to the shortage of efficient biomarkers for cancer type and disease stage. In recent years, several serum biomarkers were used to detect the progression and prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma, such as Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA). However, both the specificity and sensitivity of these biomarkers in evaluating tumor progression, prognosis, and recurrence are still unsatisfactory. Therefore, identification of the reliable and new biomarkers for the diagnosis of HCC is urgently needed to improve the prognosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the largest primary liver cancer subtype (80-90%) and one of the most common clinical malignancies. It has the third-highest cancer mortality rate among all malignant tumors and has limited therapeutic options. In the past few decades, although the diagnostic methods and treatment schedules of HCC have progressed, the long-term survival of patients has not significantly improved owing to delayed diagnosis, easy metastasis, and common relapse. Therefore, the search for a novel and reliable biomarker for predicting the prognosis of patients with HCC is of great importance.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the main type of primary liver cancer, which is the fifth most common cancer and the second most frequent because of cancer-associated deaths. A poor prognosis in patients with HCC was in part a result of incomplete understanding of epigenetic and heterogeneous gene alterations to reliably obtain predictable biomarkers. A liable assessment model is needed to improve survival prognosis and appropriate treatment decision in patients with HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the major form of primary liver cancer. According to authoritative statistics, liver cancer is the fourth most common because of cancer-related death and ranks as sixth in accordance with incident cases worldwide. The World Health Organization (WHO) claimed that over 1 million patients would die from liver cancer by the year. HCC's occult symptoms and highly aggressive properties mean that the majority of patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage, and the 5-year overall survival (OS) rate of patients with advanced HCC is only 25-39%, while the recurrence rate is nearly 80%. Early post-operation recurrence and metastasis are the predominant because of poor outcomes. Previous studies have reported that patients with HCC suffering early recurrence (within 1-year) after liver resection mainly had intrahepatic recurrence while patients with late recurrence commonly suffered from multi-extrahepatic metastasis, also, patients with early recurrence showed worse outcomes. Thus, clinical management options and therapeutic efficacy for HCC are limited. Current clinical treatments for early-stage HCC include surgical resection, liver transplantation, and locoregional therapies, while systemic therapies are recommended for patients who have intermediate and advanced disease. Promoted by the evolvement of multi-omics detection and analyzation techniques, reliable predictive biomarkers could guide scientific and clinical decisions that are crucial for patients with HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the major pathological type of primary liver cancer, which is an extremely malignant and aggressive cancer with poor clinical outcome and high mortality rate. Due to the abuse of alcohol, hepatitis virus infection, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the morbidity of HCC is increasing, and it has gradually become one of the leading causes of cancer-related death worldwide. Nowadays, the common treatment methods for HCC include curative surgical resection, liver transplantation, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, immune and molecular-targeted therapy, curative resection is still considered the preferred treatment choice for early HCC. On account of lacking the early specific symptoms and effective biomarkers, most HCC patients were usually at an advanced stage when they were first diagnosed, and lost the opportunity for curative resection. Therefore, it is urgent to identify a novel and reliable biomarker which could be helpful for early diagnosis and prognosis prediction of HCC and even serve as a therapeutic target.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the major subtype of liver cancer and ranks fourth in the cancer related deaths. Major risk factors for HCC include viral infection, alcohol intake as well as environmental exposures (e. g. aflatoxin) which segregate distinctively across different geographic regions of the world. Previous studies with medium size cohorts have characterized HCC genomes from a wide range of ethnic backgrounds including Japanese 4, Korean 5, French 6 and the US cohorts. Common molecular events, including driver genes (e. g. CTNNB1), functional pathways (e. g. the Wnt pathway) as well as transcriptomic subtypes have been extensively characterized in HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the major type of primary liver cancer (PLC), known as one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality. HCC is most prevalent in eastern and north-eastern Asia due to the high rate of hepatitis B infection and exposure of aflatoxin B1 in this area. Only China accounts for about half of globally new-arisen and dead cases. Despite large improvement in therapeutic approaches over the decades and patients' discomfort can be temporarily relieved, the postoperative overall survival (OS) of HCC patients has not prolonged much.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common and aggressive primary tumor in the liver, with limited treatment options. Surgical resection is one of the standard treatments; however, HCC still shows a high postoperative recurrence rate, rapid progression, and a poor prognosis, and there is an urgent need to find new therapeutic targets for HCC. Ferroptosis and pyroptosis play important roles in the occurrence and development of HCC. In the precancerous stage, normal hepatocyte pyroptosis promotes the process of liver fibrosis. The accumulation of inflammasomes and inflammatory factors will aggravate the transformation from liver cirrhosis to primary liver cancer. After the formation of cancer cells in the tumor stage, inflammasomes and pyroptosis are inhibited, forming an internal malignant tumor microenvironment, blocking the death of cancer cells and accelerating the development of primary liver cancer to malignancy. Sorafenib is a multikinase inhibitor that improves the survival rate of patients with advanced HCC to a certain extent. The latest experimental study found that its antitumor effect not only blocks the proliferation and antiangiogenesis of cancer cells but also is related to inducing ferroptosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common form of liver cancer and has become a global health issue attracting wide attention. An increasing number of mutated genes have been implicated in HCC occurrence and development, including mammalian target of rapamycin, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and tumor protein (TP)53. However, HCC is a highly heterogeneous disease, which adds to the complexity in predicting prognosis. There is an urgent needed to identify novel biomarkers to diagnose HCC and precisely predict prognosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common form of liver cancer and the second deadliest cancer, affecting over 500, 000 people worldwide every year. One well-established risk factor for HCC is chronic hepatitis B (HBV) infection, which accounts for approximately 50% of all cases. In the absence of diagnostic markers for the early detection of the disease, HBV-related HCC exhibits extremely poor prognosis, with a median survival of less than 16 months. Another well-established risk factor is excessive alcohol use. Studies have shown that alcohol consumption significantly increases the risk of HCC in HBV-related patients. Multiple epidemiologic and pathologic studies have reported the synergism between alcohol and HBV infection in the context of HCC. Despite the recent advancements in the knowledge of HCC and cancer in general, the molecular effects of ethanol exposure on the microenvironment and on HCC pathogenesis and progression, and its specific effects in HCC with a chronic viral hepatitis B background, remain poorly characterized.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common histological subtype of primary liver cancer, accounting for about 90% of all cases. The malignant rate of HCC is very high, causing about 700, 000 deaths every year in the world. It is the fourth leading because of cancer death in the world. The existing treatment schemes include surgical resection, local ablation, liver transplantation, chemotherapy, molecular targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. However, due to the difficulty of early diagnosis of HCC and the high rate of tumor invasion and recurrence, the overall survival rate and prognosis of patients have been poor, and the average median survival time is about 1 year.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common histological type of primary liver cancer, the third leading because of cancer death worldwide. As a highly malignant tumor, the 5-year survival rate of HCC is less than 18%. Treatment options for HCC include hepatic resection, liver transplantation, image-guided ablation, transarterial therapies, chemotherapy, and molecularly targeted therapy. Clinically, patients with HCC are often treated by a combination of several modalities. However, the therapeutic outcomes of advanced HCC remain unsatisfactory. Even after successful tumor eradication, the recurrence rate of HCC is remarkably high. Recently, immunotherapy has been shown to improve the clinical efficacy of advanced HCC. Unlike the mechanism of action of conventional therapy, immunotherapy is based on activating the patient's own immune system to fight against tumors. Cancer metabolism plays an essential role in affecting the anti-tumor immune response through modulating the interaction between tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment (TME). Therefore, it is vital to identify a metabolism-related signature to assess the TME and improve the treatment efficacy of immunotherapy.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common histopathological type of liver cancer, which ranked seventh in incidence and third in mortality among tumors worldwide in. Epidemiological studies have confirmed that HCC occurrence is associated with chronic hepatitis B/C virus infection, liver cirrhosis, environmental toxins, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, metabolic disease, and lifestyle factors. Although surgery combined with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and immunotherapy can improve patient prognosis, the five-year survival rate in advanced-stage patients is still < 15%. Hence, a study into crucial biomarkers and molecular therapeutic pathways is of great significance for improving HCC patient prognosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common liver cancer and the fourth leading because of tumor-induced death worldwide. Based on recent cancer reports, mortality due to hepatocellular carcinoma has been rising rapidly compared with other cancer-related deaths in both men and women. Due to the insidious onset of HCC and the need for viable treatment strategies, the prognosis of HCC remains very poor, and the 5-year relative survival rate is no more than 10%. In this manner, there is an urgent need to recognize robust and accurate biomarkers for HCC. Multifactor models have performed extraordinary potential for future applications. In one investigation on an expansive breast cancer meta-dataset, straightforward multigene models reliably outflanked single-gene biomarkers in all segments. In another survey on classifiers to predict breast cancer recurrences, integrated classifiers were much better than routine biomarkers (ER, PR, HER2, Ki).
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common pathological subtype of liver cancer; it is the sixth most common type of cancer and the fourth leading because of cancer-related death in the world. Although the main treatment of early HCC is surgery, 50% of the patients are at an advanced stage at the time of diagnosis. The 5-year overall survival (OS) rate for HCC is about 12. 5%. Targeted therapy has improved the OS in HCC; however, the overall efficacy is unsatisfactory. The emergence of immunotherapy has identified new therapeutic prospects for HCC, especially immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), such as programmed death 1 (PD-1)/programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4). In recent clinical studies, both nivolumab and pembrolizumab have exhibited better prognosis as second-line therapy in advanced HCC after sorafenib treatment.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer. It usually develops in the context of chronic liver disease and has a poor prognosis. As HCC is not sensitive to radiotherapy and chemotherapy, HCCs that cannot be radically removed lack effective treatment methods. The case fatality rate is second in the world, and the five-year survival rate is less than 15%. In recent years, the incidence of liver cancer has continued to rise, and it is currently the sixth most common cancer in the world. Immune infiltration is an important part of the tumour immune microenvironment, and it has become a hot spot in tumour research in recent years. Immune infiltration-related genes refer to the genes involved in the biological process of immune infiltration. The expression of immune infiltration-related genes is closely related to the occurrence and development of tumours. Many studies have confirmed the role of immune infiltration-related genes in solid tumours. However, the prognostic value of immune infiltration-related genes in HCC still needs to be further studied.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer accounting for more than 95%. The main because of HCC is chronic infection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). Because of the poor prognosis for HCC, the mortality of HCC has been increasing in the past few decades. The 3-year survival rate is only 12. 7%, and the median survival time is only 9 months. Therefore, it is very important to explore the early diagnosis and accurate prognosis of liver cancer.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer and accounts for 4. 7% of newly diagnosed cancer cases and 8. 2% of cancer related deaths. Most patients with HCC have underlying liver cirrhosis, of which majority are related to hepatitis B or C virus. The 5-years cumulative risk of HCC associated to hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related cirrhosis is 30% in Japan and 17% in Western countries. Studies using next generation sequencing have elucidated several genetic and epigenetic factors associated with the progression of liver cirrhosis into HCC. Totoki et al. identified 30 Driver-Gene Candidates (DGCs) in 503 HCC cases from different populations. However, the molecular mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. Although surgical resection and liver transplantation may be curative for early and intermediate stage HCC, patients are often diagnosed at an advanced stage at which the main therapies are trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE), percutaneous local ablation, or internal radiation therapy, which are associated with low efficacy. Although the approval of targeted therapies like Sorafenib and Lenvatinib have increased HCC treatment options, they have not significantly improved patient prognosis. Immunotherapies, including programmed cell death 1 (PD1) and cytotoxic T lymphocyte 4 (CTLA4) inhibitors have shown potential for effectiveness in HCC treatment. However, biomarker predictors of treatment responsiveness are urgently needed for patient stratification.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer and accounts for 75-85% of cases. HCC was also the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer and the fourth leading because of cancer-related deaths globally in. Only hepatic resection and liver transplantation are considered potentially curative approaches for treating HCC. However, most patients are diagnosed at a late stage, and the treatment rate for early-stage patients is disappointingly low. It is well known that the tumour immune microenvironment (TIME) plays an essential role in tumorigenesis, tumour development, and treatment outcome. In recent years, immunotherapy has emerged as a promising strategy for cancer treatment, while only a few HCC patients showed response to immune treatment. Therefore, systematic analysis of the function of various types of intratumour immune cells might contribute to the development of novel biomarkers for prognosis and therapeutic effectiveness for patients with HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer and has been an important medical problem worldwide. HCC is the sixth most common malignancy in the world and the fourth leading because of cancer-related death. HCC has been identified as the leading because of death in patients with cirrhosis, and its incidence is expected to increase in the future.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer in adults, and is the leading because of cancer-related mortality worldwide. It is well-known that HCC is a group of highly heterogeneous diseases, and the prognosis of individual patients varies greatly. Clinically, tumor stage, histological grade, and molecular subtype are used to evaluate prognostic factors of patients with HCC. However, these clinicopathological features cannot accurately provide information to predict the prognosis, which may lead to inaccurate judgment regarding the prognosis and inappropriate treatment of patients. Therefore, there is an urgent need to identify new molecular markers to predict the prognosis of patients with HCC, which would be conducive in terms of accurate patient treatment.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer, and it is also the fourth most common malignant tumor, with high mortality and a high degree of malignancy in humans. 80% of patients are in the advanced stage at the first visit and lose the opportunity for radical surgery. Although some HCC patients undergo radical hepatectomy, a high rate of postoperative recurrence and metastasis are still major challenges for the survival of patients. In recent years, targeted therapy and immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy have made significant progress in various malignancies and achieved satisfactory efficacy in HCC. However, there are still a considerable proportion of individuals with poor survival. Hence, it is necessary to explore new targets to improve the therapeutic efficacy of HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer, which is now the second leading because of cancer-related death worldwide. Although great progression has been made during recent years in diagnostic techniques, and surgical and adjuvant systemic treatment, the prognosis continues to be poor for patients with HCC. Mitochondrial are essential organelles critical for normal cell function such as cell metabolism and redox balance. For decades, cancer cells have been regarded as defective in mitochondrial respiration due to their hyperactivated glycolysis metabolism. Whereas, a growing body of evidence also has revealed the dependency of tumor cells on mitochondrial respiration and important roles played by abnormal mitochondrial respiration in tumorigenesis. Mitochondrial are not only the powerhouse for ATP production, but also the source of oncogenic metabolites such as α-KG and succinate, both of which play crucial roles in epigenetic regulation in cancer cells. In addition, mitochondria are also the main source of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which activates diverse signaling networks that drive tumor cell proliferation, survival and malignant progression. Thus, identification of novel potential molecular regulators involved in the dysfunction of mitochondrial respiration may provide insights into the biological basis of cancer development, as well as new potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets for treatment of this malignancy.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer. According to estimates from GLOBOCAN, HCC is the fourth leading because of cancer death (8. 2%) and ranks as the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer (4. 7%) worldwide in. Currently, the optimal treatment for HCC patients is radical resection surgery at the early stage, but many cases are diagnosed at the advanced stage, leading to poor prognosis. With the development of high-throughput analyses of many HCC samples, researchers are starting to gain a deeper understanding of the molecular changes in cancer cells. HCC cancer cells accumulate somatic DNA alterations, including mutations and chromosomal aberrations. HCC patients at the same clinical stage tend to have different molecular subtypes, and evidence indicates that gene signatures have significant potential in predicting HCC patients' prognoses. Therefore, identification of novel biomarkers is necessary for early screening, diagnosis and molecular targets of HCC patients in order to improve survival rates.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer, which has already become the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer (906, 000 new cases) and the third leading because of cancer death (830, 000 deaths) worldwide in. Chronic infection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV), cirrhosis, excessive alcohol consumption, and type 2 diabetes are the main risk factors for HCC. HCC has a very poor prognosis due to its advanced stage, rapid progression, high recurrence rate, and limited treatment options. Traditionally, tumor stage is a widely used basis for predicting the prognosis of patients with HCC. However, prognosis in HCC is complex and highly heterogeneous, patients in the same tumor stage may present significantly different prognosis. A valuable, accurate strategy is still an urgent need to predict HCC prognosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of liver cancer and is characterized by an extremely high recurrence rate and heterogeneity. Chronic viral infection with hepatitis B (HBV) or C (HCV) is the main because of HCC, and in recent years the incidence and mortality of this disease have gradually increased. Treatment for HCC varies according to the stage of disease. Surgical resection or local ablation is generally used for early stage HCC, trans arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is used for intermediate or systemic HCC, while advanced HCC is mostly treated with drugs. However, HCC often develops to an advanced stage before being diagnosed, and the tumor recurrence rate is as high as 50% within 3 years after treatment. Although many studies have suggested there are significant changes in the expression of immune cells in HCC, the key genes that connect immunity and HCC are poorly understood.
 Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of liver cancer and one of the leading causes of cancer death worldwide. In 2020, there were an estimated 42, 810 new liver cancer cases and 30, 160 related deaths in the United States. The major risk factors for liver cancer include chronic Hepatitis B virus infection, hepatitis C infection, obesity, and alcoholism. At present, the treatment of HCC mainly includes surgical resection, transvascular chemoembolization, radiofrequency ablation, liver transplantation, molecular targeted therapy, and systemic chemotherapy. However, due to the concealed onset of HCC, more than 80% of patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage. The above treatment methods are usually insufficient, and the 5-year overall survival rate is less than 10%. Therefore, new therapies with different mechanisms are urgently needed to improve the prognosis of HCC patients. Immunotherapy has gradually become another milestone after traditional radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer and is the third leading because of cancer-related death. Obesity, diabetes, fatty liver, virus infection, and many other diseases can lead to HCC. Treatment of HCC largely depends on surgery. Radiochemotherapy is unsatisfactory in part because of the current difficulty in early diagnosis. Furthermore, although drugs like Sorafenib and Lenvatinib had been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the drug-response rates are relatively low probably due to the pronounced tumor heterogeneity. For example, in one trial the median survival was only months longer compared to the placebo arm in Asians and Caucasians. More precise patient stratification and discovery of novel drug targets are necessary to improve treatment outcomes of HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer and the third most frequent because of cancer-related death worldwide. Due to the high rate of recurrence and metastasis, the five-year survival rate for advanced HCC is very low. As an immunogenic tumor, HCC is characterized by strong immunosuppressive microenvironment and high immune evasion. Immunotherapy is designed to harness the immune system to attack tumor cells, for reducing the rate of tumor recurrence and metastasis. As a result, immunotherapy has gradually become a promising direction for the treatment of advanced HCC. However, only a small number of cancer patients could benefit from current immunotherapies. It is urgent to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of immune cells infiltration in HCC and identify novel immune-related therapeutic targets.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer that occurs most often in people with long-term liver diseases, especially cirrhosis caused by hepatitis viral infection.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer, accounting for 90% of primary liver cancer cases, and is the leading because of cancer-associated death worldwide. Infection by hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV), as well as alcohol consumption, is the predominant causative agent of HCC development, although non-alcoholic steatohepatitis associated with metabolic syndrome or diabetes mellitus is becoming a more frequent risk factor in the West. Currently, the main methods for treating HCC are surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and liver transplantation. In recent years, despite remarkable progress in immunotherapy, such as PD1-targeted therapy, there have still been a considerable number of HCC patients who cannot benefit from immunotherapy, which may be related to the immunosuppressive environment of tumors, resulting in the primary because of mortality. Therefore, elucidating the molecular mechanisms, especially the immune-related cellular mechanism, underlying the pathogenesis of HCC is essential for the development of effective anti-cancer therapies.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer, which is the fifth most prevalent malignancy and the second leading because of cancer-related death globally. HCC patients reveal various clinical symptoms, including weight loss, hepatalgia, diarrhea, obstructive jaundice, and ascites. However, early HCC lacks classic clinical features, and once the signs and symptoms of liver cancer start to appear, most HCC cases are locally advanced and/or distant metastatic, which results in difficult therapy and poor prognosis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer, with high mortality. Despite several available treatment methods for HCC, patients in different stages require different treatment measures and the long-term survival remains poor. At present, the staging and grading of HCC is not comprehensive, which makes assessment of prognosis difficult. Therefore, it is important to identify predictive indicators and develop a prognostic model for patients with HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of primary liver cancer, with over half a million new cases diagnosed worldwide each year. HCC is the most malignant form of liver cancer, which derives from the aggressive proliferation of liver epithelial cells. As the sixth leading because of cancer-related mortality globally, HCC accounts for 4. 7% of all cancer deaths. In 2020, over 910, 000 people were diagnosed with HCC, and its incidence is continuously rising. In China, the incidence of HCC is particularly high, accounting for 55% of the total number of HCC patients worldwide.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of the liver cancer. The incidence and death rate of the liver cancer increase rapidly worldwide. In China, the liver cancer remains the third because of cancer-related deaths and the third commonly diagnosed cancer. Some therapeutic strategies such as curative resection, liver transplantation, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and transarterial embolization (TAE) may be promising for the treatment of HCC, whereas its prognosis remains unsatisfactory due to high recurrence and metastasis rates. The underlying mechanisms may involve epigenetic alterations and genetic mutations, as well as lack of reliable gene signatures. It is hence of clinical importance to construct a robust molecular model that can reliably predict the prognosis of HCC and has the potential to guide personalized therapeutic first-line treatment strategies.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most fatal malignancy disease among primary liver cancers and is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide. HCC develops from underlying chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, which are usually caused by hepatitis B and C viral (HBV and HCV) infections, alcohol consumption, or diabetes and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. The incidence of HCC is highest in Asia, including Taiwan, and Africa, and it occurs in males more often than in females. The median survival time of HCC in Taiwan is significantly higher than that in Africa, where the median survival is only 2. 5 months. To the present, several therapeutic strategies have been applied as HCC treatment, including chemoradiotherapy, surgery, and systemic therapy with sorafenib, but low therapeutic and diagnostic efficiencies still lead to severe mortality of patients with this disease. Thus, we wanted to illuminate novel biomarkers for HCC diagnoses or therapeutic targets.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most frequent pathological type of primary liver cancer, representing the sixth most common neoplasm and fourth leading because of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Although advancements have been made in the clinical management of HCC in the last decade, the prognosis of HCC patients is dismal, and the 5-year survival rate is 18%. Prognostic evaluation is crucial for disease surveillance and selecting treatment strategies for HCC management. Several staging systems considering clinical and pathological patient characteristics are recommended in HCC management guidelines. However, these assessment approaches have various limitations in patient stratification and require improvement. In recent years, next-generation sequencing data have considerably enhanced our understanding of cancer biology; several studies have demonstrated the prognostic abilities of gene signatures established from different aspects in HCC patients. However, further efforts are required to identify novel and robust prognosis predictors through bioinformatic analyses of genome data combined with the clinical features of HCC patients.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most frequent primary liver cancer, and incidence of about 10. 1 cases per 100, 000 persons, and HCC is ranked as the sixth most common neoplasm and the third leading because of cancer death. HCC occurs mainly in the context of cirrhosis, hepatitis B or C virus infection, or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, and its incidence is expected to increase. Perturbations in folate dependent methylation pathways have been associated with cancer occurrence and many human pathological conditions. Genes involved in the folate-mediated one carbon (1C) metabolism have been important therapeutic targets for numerous human diseases including HCC. Enzymes of methionine cycle including methionine adenosyltransferases (MATs) and glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT), are essential for the synthesis and utilization of S-adenosylmethionine (adoMet), the universal methyl donor and precursor for polyamine and glutathione synthesis.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most frequent primary malignancy of the liver and the third leading because of cancer mortality worldwide. Current treatment options for liver cancer primarily include surgery, local treatment, biological treatment, and various other methods. Recently, molecular targeted therapy has been used to treat some patients with advanced liver cancer, but because targeted drugs are relatively expensive and induce side effects, they have not been fully utilized. In the past few years, there has been growing research attention on traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Previous studies have established that TCM can improve the clinical symptoms of patients, especially for those with advanced liver cancer by prolonging their survival period, and the cost is relatively inexpensive. In particular, TCM formulation contains a variety of chemical components that act on multiple targets and diseases. However, due to the complexity and diversity of TCM components, our understanding of the specific molecular mechanisms of Chinese medicine is still largely unknown. This, therefore, limits the development of Chinese medicine. Nevertheless, the recent development of computer technology has allowed us to analyze the components of these medicines and systematically analyze their effects on diseases through network pharmacology, which has greatly promoted our understanding of the molecular network of Chinese medicines and their nature.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most prevalent cancer type of all liver cancer types. Due to the aggressive nature of HCC, the prognosis of patients with HCC is dismal, with the average overall survival of only approximately 10 months. It is pivotal to reveal the signaling network and provide novel targets for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most prevalent form of liver cancer. HCC is susceptible to metastasis and a frequent because of cancer-related mortality. Treatments for HCC include partial liver resection, interventional surgery, liver transplantation, and systemic treatment. These have benefit in early-stage patients, but the treatment of patients with advanced HCC is challenging.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most prevalent subtype of hepatic malignancies worldwide, accounting for 90% of primary liver cancers. HCC is particularly prevalent in developing countries, particularly in East Asia and sub-Saharan Africa when compared with developed countries. Previous epidemiological studies have reported there to be approximately 250, 000 new subjects and approximately 500, 000 to 600, 000 deaths due to HCC annually. Despite the rapid advances in imaging techniques, surgical resection, and comprehensive therapy to treat HCC in recent years, the 5-year survival rate of HCC patients remains poor. Therefore, it is necessary to uncover novel prognostic signatures that may identify groups of patients with a high risk of poor survival.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the predominant form of liver cancer and the second most common because of cancer death worldwide. Useful serum biomarkers for HCC include α-fetoprotein (AFP), Lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive α-fetoprotein (AFP-L3), and des-γ-carboxyprothrombin (DCP; also termed prothrombin induced by vitamin K absence-II [PIVKA-II]). Single-marker assessment has low sensitivity for patients with early-stage or even advanced HCC, but a combination of 2 or 3 tumor markers may improve sensitivity, and provide better specificity for the prediction of prognosis of HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the primary form of malignant liver cancer and it is a leading because of cancer-related deaths globally. HCC has become the seventh most common type of cancer worldwide. About 90% of HCC arise from chronic inflammation that is associated with continuous hepatic injury and hepatocyte regeneration. Surgery is the best course of treatment for HCC patients, but when we are faced with patients suffering from advanced stage HCC, the available therapeutic options are limited. Therefore, understanding the molecular pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma is quintessential for the treatment of HCC.
 Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the second leading because of cancer-related death worldwide, and accounts for around 800, 000 deaths yearly. HCC is a heterogeneous disease with a number of risk factors including hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, obesity, and alcohol abuse. Treatments for HCC include hepatectomy, liver transplantation, radiotherapy, transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE), and chemotherapy; however, the survival of patients with advanced HCC is poor. The assessment of prognosis is important for patients with HCC, as an adequate assessment can prevent low-risk patients from receiving unnecessary treatments, and high-risk patients from relapse or metastasis due to inadequate treatment. Current well-known staging strategies such as tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) and the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) system only focus on tumor diameter, tumor metastasis, and liver function. However, the important role of metabolic subtypes is ignored. Thus, the addition of genetic factors to traditional prognostic models may improve risk assessment.